23
Section 2 – A System for Value Delivery
The disciplines of portfolio, program, project, and product management are interdependent and
operate within a value delivery framework to ensure alignment with organizational strategy. While
portfolio, program, and product management are beyond the scope of this standard, understanding
each discipline and the relationships among them provides a useful context for projects where the
deliverables are products.
Product management may initiate programs or projects at any point in the product life cycle to create
or enhance specific components, functions, or capabilities (see Figure 2-5). The initial product may
begin as a deliverable of a program or project. Throughout its life cycle, a new program or project
may add or improve specific components, attributes, or capabilities that create additional value
for customers and the sponsoring organization. In some instances, a program may encompass the
full life cycle of a product or service to manage benefits and create value for the organization more
directly.
The relationships among portfolio, program, project, and product management can exist in different
forms, as shown in Figure 2-5, including but not limited to the following:
⚫
Program management within a product life cycle. This approach incorporates related
projects, subsidiary programs, and program activities. For very large or long-term products,
one or more product life cycle phases may be sufficiently complex to merit a set of
programs and projects working together.
Figure 2-5. Sample Product Life Cycle
Introduction Growth Maturity Decline/Retirement
Product Usage, Sales, Impact
Time
Project 3
(Additions)
Project 7
(Retirement)
Project 1
(Initial Creation)
Project 4
(Revisions)
Project 5
(Revisions)
Project 6
(Revisions)
Project 2
(More Features)
Program A Program B
Portfolio
Product
Life Cycle
Phases:
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.