Update of Key Terms and Concepts
This edition presents updated definitions of key terms and concepts, such as the core definitions
for project, project management, and others. These updates are based on shifts in marketplace
expectations encountered by portfolio, program, and project practitioners. While some of these shifts
are recent, others accumulated over the last decade or longer. Shifts that motivate these updates
include but are not limited to the following:
⚫
Timeliness. Some of the key terms and concepts have not been updated in more than
40 years. In that time, the discipline of project management has meaningfully expanded
and matured to merit updates.
⚫
Global accessibility. The project management community is more global than ever before.
The language used in some of the historical definitions has been unfriendly to international
translation and nonnative English speakers.
⚫
Focus on value. Earlier understandings of project management focused on efficient
delivery of work within constraints (e.g., scope, schedule, compliance, quality). However, the
current marketplace expects project management to address an expanding set of concepts,
including the project’s value proposition.
Refined Principles
This edition defines six project management principles that guide effective practice. These six
principles are the result of a community-driven simplification of the principles defined in the previous
edition’s 12 principles. In the eighth edition, principles have been refined to be more actionable, and
consolidated to minimize overlap, duplication, and confusion.
Additional details on the refinement of the project management principles can be found in
Appendix X5: Evolution of the PMBOK
® Guide.
Reintroducing Process Groups as Focus Areas
This edition presents five Project Management Focus Areas: Initiating, Planning, Executing,
Monitoring and Controlling, and Closing. Most projects feature a life cycle that involves actions and
activities related to these Focus Areas.
Historically, these five Focus Areas were presented as logical categories of formal project
management processes, known as the Project Management Process Groups. In contrast, today’s
projects often satisfy these five concepts through the use of multiple approaches. In addition to
formal processes, project life cycles are often managed by informal practices and/or flexible policies
as well. As such, these historical Process Groups have been reimagined as Focus Areas.
Prefaceviii
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.