4
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
⚫ Tools and Techniques. This section presents a brief description of the tools and techniques
listed for project management activities and the processes presented throughout the project
management performance domains. The elements listed in this section are neither intended
to be comprehensive, nor required for any given project. Rather, they are offered as commonly
used selections from among the countless options that project teams have available.
1.2 Relationship of the PMBOK® Guide and The Standard for Project Management
Work in the project management performance domains is guided by the principles of project
management. As described in The Standard for Project Management [1], a principle is a fundamental
norm, truth, or value that gives guidance for the project manager and project team. The principles of
project management provide guidance for the mindset and behavior of people involved in projects
as they influence and shape the performance domains to produce the intended outcomes. While
there is conceptual overlap between the principles and the performance domains, the principles
guide mindset and behavior, while the performance domains present broad areas of focus in
which to demonstrate that mindset and behavior. Figure 1-1 shows how the project management
principles create a foundation for the performance domains, providing guidance to processes in each
performance domain.
Figure 1-1.  Relationship Between Project Management Principles and Project Management
Performance Domains
Schedule                  Scope                  Governance
Stakeholders                  Resources                  Risk                                                                                                             Finance
Mindset and Beha viors
Principles
Performance Domains
Culture
Empowered
Build an
Integrate
Sustainability
Within All Project Areas
Be an
Accountable
Leader
Embed Quality
Into Processes
and Deliverables
Value
on
FocusViewa Holistic
Adopt
Proactive
Ownership
Value-Driven
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.