59
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
⚫ Providing information to stakeholders;
⚫ Forecasting future trends, including cost overruns, resource shortages, or savings;
⚫ Evaluating return on investment, long-term value, and impacts; and
⚫ Enhancing risk management to help ensure the project’s financial health and overall
success.
The value of financial measurements is not in the collection and dissemination of the data, but rather
in the interactions about how to use the data to make value-adding, well-informed decisions and take
appropriate actions. Therefore, while much of this performance domain addresses various types of
measurements that can be captured, use of the measurements occurs within the context of activities
in other performance domains such as project team and stakeholder discussions, coordinating
project work, and so forth.
2.4.1 Key Concepts
The following key concepts support effective practices for the Finance performance domain:
⚫
Value definition. Organizations use various strategies to define value, either tangible or
intangible, which is often based on financial returns (tangible), with metrics such as return
on investment (ROI), internal rate of return (IRR), payback period, or return on assets (ROA)
that can be used to measure project success and alignment with organizational goals.
The return on average capital employed (ROACE) may also be used. The ROACE method
can help calculate the organization’s profitability compared to the money that has been
invested. Sometimes, other indicators can be used such as compliance with regulations
or social impact; therefore, value may be more than just profit (financial) and can also
be value for people (social) or the planet (environmental). As an example, sometimes
spending more on a given project is acceptable as the value is measured by the outcome
of the project being available on a given date. In some cases, projects do not actually
bring value by themselves, as they may be a component of a program, where value will
be realized in the future. On the other hand, customer satisfaction and innovation are
examples of intangible value.
⚫
Value maximization. The Finance performance domain focuses not only on cost
management but also on ensuring that the project delivers maximum value for the
organization. This effort involves aligning with strategy, using clear indicators of project
success such as ROI and IRR, and considering other dimensions like social impact, customer
satisfaction, and innovation.
⚫
Funding. Project management practitioners should have an understanding of how a project
acquires its financial resources. Monies can be provided by several means, including but
not limited to internal organizational budgets, customer contracts, grants, or customer-
driven “crowdfunding.” Project practitioners are often called upon to lead or support such
funding activities, either before or during a project.
⚫
Financial constraints.  Budget is generally the primary financial constraint of a project
but it is not the only one. Sometimes the project is restricted to the use of a given type
of financial resource. Examples may include types of funding like capital expenditures
(CapEx) and operational expenditures (OpEx) or internal versus external personnel, which
may incur different budget strategies or funding that is allocated for a specific purpose
or a specific time period such as a fiscal year. CapEx are intended funds invested by
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.