169
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
⚫ Quality reports, test reports, performance reports, and variance analysis;
⚫ Regulatory documentation such as laws, codes, or ordinances, etc.;
⚫ Requests for proposal; and
⚫ Use cases.
Earned value (EV) analysis. Earned value analysis compares the performance measurement
baseline to the actual schedule and cost performance. Earned value management (EVM) integrates
the scope baseline with the cost baseline and schedule baseline to form the performance
measurement baseline. EVM develops and monitors three key dimensions for each work package
and control account:
⚫
Planned value (PV). PV is the authorized budget assigned to scheduled work. It is the
authorized budget planned for the work to be accomplished for an activity or work
breakdown structure (WBS) component, not including management reserve. This budget
is allocated by phase over the life of the project, but at a given point in time. PV defines
the physical work that should have been accomplished. The total of the PV is sometimes
referred to as the performance measurement baseline (PMB). The total PV for the project is
also known as budget at completion (BAC).
⚫
Earned value (EV). EV is the measure of work performed expressed in terms of the budget
authorized for that work. It is the budget associated with the authorized work that has been
completed. The EV being measured should be related to the PMB, and the EV measured
cannot be greater than the authorized PV budget for a component. The EV is often used
to calculate the percent complete of a project. Progress measurement criteria should be
established for each WBS component to measure work in progress. Project managers
monitor EV, both incrementally to determine current status and cumulatively to determine
the long-term performance trends.
⚫
Actual cost (AC). AC is the realized cost incurred for the work performed on an activity during
a specific time period. The AC is the total cost incurred in accomplishing the work that the
EV measured. The AC should correspond in definition to what was budgeted in the PV and
measured in the EV (e.g., direct hours only, direct costs only, or all costs including indirect
costs). The AC will have no upper limit; whatever is spent to achieve the EV will be measured.
There are tools and techniques that can be applied to calculate the EVM for projects carried out with
an adaptive approach (see The Standard for Earned Value Management, p. 91) [3].
In adaptive approaches, effort can be expressed through story points. The result is a calculation of EV
and PV for the different iterations that is based on the story points assigned to each user story. The
PV is the amount of story points estimated for the user stories planned until a certain date, usually
the end of the iteration, and EV represents the story points estimated for the user stories that are
considered done at the end of the same iteration. The AC value is related to the costs for the team
working on the user stories during the iteration, usually derived from the working hours.
Emotional intelligence. Emotional intelligence is the ability to identify, assess, and manage the
personal emotions of oneself and other people, as well as the collective emotions of groups of
people. A project team can use emotional intelligence to reduce tension and increase cooperation
by identifying, assessing, and controlling the sentiments of project team members, anticipating their
actions, acknowledging their concerns, and following up on their issues.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.