178
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
▶ Social skills. Social skills are the culmination of the other dimensions of emotional
intelligence. Social skills are concerned with managing groups of people, such
as project teams, building social networks, finding common ground with various
stakeholders, and building rapport.
Self-awareness and self-management skills are required to remain calm and productive
during difficult project circumstances. Social awareness and social skills allow for better
bonds with project team members and project stakeholders. Emotional intelligence is a
basis of all forms of leadership.
Some models for emotional intelligence include a fifth area for motivation. Motivation in
this context is about understanding what drives and inspires people. For more information,
see emotional intelligence.
⚫
Decision-making. Project managers and project teams make many decisions daily. Some
decisions may be fairly inconsequential to the project outcome, such as where to go for a
team lunch, and others will be very impactful, such as what development approach to use,
which tool to use, or what vendor to select.
◾ Decisions can be made unilaterally. This has the adva ntage of being fast but is prone
to errors when compared to engaging the wisdom of a diverse set of people. Unilateral
decision-making can also demotivate people who are impacted by the decision since
they may feel their views and concerns were not considered.
◾ Group-based decision-making has the benefit of tapp ing into the broad knowledge
base of a group. Engaging people in the decision-making process also increases buy-in
Social Awareness
• Be empathetic
• Employ active
listening
Social Skills
• Establish rapport
• Build effective
teams
• Manage attitude
Self-Management
• Think before you act
• Build trust
Self-Awareness
• How do you affect
the team?
• How does the team
affect you?
Figure 5-11. Components of Emotional Intelligence
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.