205
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
Team building. Team building is conducting activities that enhance the team’s social relationships
and build a collaborative and cooperative working environment. Team-building activities can vary
from a 5-minute agenda item in a status review meeting to an off-site, professionally facilitated
event designed to improve interpersonal relationships. The objective of team-building activities is to
help individual team members work together effectively. Team-building strategies are particularly
valuable when team members operate from remote locations without the benefit of face-to-face
contact. Informal communication and activities can help in building trust and establishing good
working relationships. While team building is essential during the initial stages of a project, it should
be a continuous process. Changes in a project environment are inevitable, and to manage them
effectively, a continuous or renewed team-building effort may be applied. The project manager
should continually monitor team functionality and performance to determine if any actions are
needed to prevent or correct various team problems.
Technical performance analysis. Technical performance analysis compares technical
accomplishments during project execution to the schedule of technical achievement. The analysis
requires the definition of objective, quantifiable measures of technical performance, which can be
used to compare actual results against targets. Such technical performance measures may include
weight, transaction times, number of delivered defects, storage capacity, etc. Deviation can indicate
the potential impact of threats or opportunities.
Test and inspection planning. During the planning phase, the project manager and the project team
determine how to test or inspect the product, deliverable, or service to meet the stakeholders’ needs
and expectations, as well as how to meet the goal for the product’s performance and reliability. The
tests and inspections are industry dependent and can include, for example, alpha and beta tests in
software projects, strength tests in construction projects, inspection in manufacturing, and field tests
and nondestructive tests in engineering.
Testing/product evaluations.  Testing is an organized and constructed investigation conducted
to provide objective information about the quality of the product or service under test in
accordance with the project requirements. The intent of testing is to find errors, defects, bugs,
or other nonconformance problems in the product or service. The type, amount, and extent of
tests needed to evaluate each requirement depend on the nature of the project, time, budget,
and other constraints. Tests can be performed throughout the project, as different components of
the project become available, and at the end of the project on the final deliverables. Early testing
helps identify nonconformance problems and helps reduce the cost of fixing the nonconforming
components.
Different application areas require different tests. For example, software testing may include unit
testing, integration testing, black-box, white-box, interface testing, regression testing, alpha testing,
etc. In construction projects, testing may include cement strength, concrete workability tests,
nondestructive tests at construction sites for testing the quality of hardened concrete structures, and
soil tests. In hardware development, testing may include environmental stress screening, burn-in
tests, system testing, and more.
Text-oriented formats. Team member responsibilities that require detailed descriptions can be
specified in text-oriented formats. Usually in outline form, these documents provide information such
as responsibilities, authority, competencies, and qualifications. The documents are known by various
names including position descriptions and role–responsibility–authority forms. These documents can
be used as templates for future projects, especially when the information is updated throughout the
current project by applying lessons learned.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.