197
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
the critical path. Crashing works only for activities on the critical path where additional
resources will shorten the activity’s duration. Crashing does not always produce a viable
alternative and may result in increased risk and/or cost.
⚫
Fast tracking. A schedule compression technique in which activities or phases normally
done in sequence are performed in parallel for at least a portion of their duration.
An example is constructing the foundation of a building before completing all of the
architectural drawings. Fast tracking may result in rework and increased risk. Fast tracking
only works when activities can be overlapped to shorten the project duration on the critical
path. Such overlapping requires increased coordination efforts between the activities
concerned, potentially resulting in greater quality risk. Fast tracking may also increase
project costs.
Schedule network analysis. Schedule network analysis is a technique used to identify early and late
start dates, as well as early and late finish dates, for the uncompleted portions of project activities.
Schedule network analysis is the overarching technique used to generate the project schedule
model. The analysis employs several other techniques such as critical path method, resource
optimization techniques, and modeling techniques. Additional analysis includes but is not limited to
the following:
⚫
Assessing the need to aggregate schedule reserves to reduce the probability of a schedule
slip when multiple paths converge at a single point in time, or when multiple paths diverge
from a single point in time, to reduce the probability of a schedule slip.
⚫
Reviewing the network to see if the critical path has high-risk activities or long-lead items
that would necessitate use of schedule reserves or the implementation of risk responses to
reduce the risk on the critical path.
Schedule network analysis is an iterative process that is employed until a viable schedule model is
developed.
Sensitivity analysis. Sensitivity analysis helps to determine which individual project risks or other
sources of uncertainty have the most potential impact on project outcomes. The analysis correlates
variations in project outcomes with variations in elements of the quantitative risk analysis model.
One typical display of sensitivity analysis is the tornado diagram, which presents the calculated
correlation coefficient for each element of the quantitative risk analysis model that can influence
the project outcome. This analysis can include individual project risks, project activities with high
degrees of variability, or specific sources of ambiguity. Items are ordered by descending strength
of correlation, giving the typical tornado appearance. An example tornado diagram is shown in
Figure 5-21.
Servant leadership. Servant leadership is the practice of leading the team by focusing on
understanding and addressing the needs and development of team members in order to enable
the highest possible team performance. Servant leadership is performed in service to the project’s
business/mission objective(s).
Simulation. Simulation models the combined effects of individual project risks and other sources
of uncertainty to evaluate their potential impact on achieving project objectives. The most common
simulation technique is Monte Carlo analysis, in which risks and other sources of uncertainty are
used to calculate possible schedule outcomes for the total project. Simulation involves calculating
multiple work package durations with different sets of activity assumptions, constraints, risks, issues,
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.