109
Section 3 – Tailoring
⚫ Project team experience. Do the project team members have any experience in the
industry, organization, or working with one another? Do they have the skills, tools, and
technology required for the project under consideration?
⚫
Access to customer. Is it practical to get frequent and timely feedback from customers or
customer representatives?
⚫ Team diversity. Are there diverse skills, experiences, and perspectives within the team that
can enhance problem-solving and innovation?
3.4.3.3 Culture
Evaluating the culture includes the following considerations:
⚫
Buy-in. Is there acceptance, support, and enthusiasm for the proposed development
approach?
⚫ Trust. Are there high levels of trust that the project team is capable of—and committed
to—delivering the project outcomes?
⚫ Empowerment. Is the project team trusted, supported, and encouraged to own and
develop its working environment, agreements, and decisions?
⚫
Organizational culture.  Do the organizational values and culture align with the project
approach? This evaluation includes distinctions between empowering versus specifying
and checking, and trusting local decision-making versus requesting external decision-
making, etc.
Through the evaluation of these attributes, tailoring decisions around engagement, processes, and
tools can be made for the project.
3.4.4 Implement Ongoing Improvement
The process of tailoring is not a single, one-time exercise. During progressive elaboration, issues
with how the project team is working, how the product or deliverable is evolving, and other learnings
can indicate where further tailoring could bring improvements. Review points, phase gates, and
retrospectives all provide opportunities to inspect and adapt the process, development approach,
and delivery frequency, as necessary.
Keeping the project team engaged with improving its process can foster pride of ownership and
demonstrate a commitment to implementing ongoing improvements and quality. Empowering
the project team to find and implement improvements also demonstrates trust in their skills and
suggestions. Project team engagement with tailoring demonstrates a mindset of innovation and
improvement rather than settling for the status quo.
The way an organization tailors itself can also be tailored. However, most organizations undertake
some or all of the four steps described. Organizations can use elements of selecting an initial
approach, tailoring for the organization, tailoring for the project, and implementing ongoing
improvement, as shown in Figure 3-3.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.