53
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
Other factors to consider when estimating duration may include:
◾ Law of diminishing returns. When one factor (e.g., a resource) used to determine the
effort required to produce a unit of work is increased while all other factors remain
fixed, a point will eventually be reached at which additions of that one factor start to
yield progressively smaller or diminishing increases in output.
◾ Number of resources. Increasing the number of resources to twice the original number of
resources does not always reduce the time by half, as it may increase duration due to extra
risk. At some point, adding too many resources to the activity may increase duration due
to knowledge transfer, learning curves, additional coordination, and other factors involved.
◾ Advances in technology. Technology advances may also play an important role
in determining duration estimates. For example, an increase in the output of a
manufacturing plant may be achieved by procuring the latest advances in technology,
which may impact duration and resource needs.
◾ Documentation. All data and assumptions that support duration estimating are
documented for each activity duration estimate.
◾ Level of decomposition. The estimate can be made at distinct levels, at the level of the
control account, or at the work package or activity level.
◾ Cognitive bias. Biases such as planning fallacy and end-of-story illusion, and other
phenomena like Hofstadter’s law or even the motivation of team members, may also
impact the accuracy of the scheduling process.
⚫
Step 4: Adjust. This step entails reviewing the draft schedule, based on the sequence, estimates,
and resources accumulated in the previous steps. If the draft schedule is unacceptable, various
techniques can be applied to adjust those components to find alternative schedule options.
◾ Once finalized, the schedule contains a series of uniq ue activities that have varying
durations and are linked by defined logical relationships. The schedule provides the
project team with information about what work should be done, and in what sequence
the project deliverables should be accomplished.
◾ Afte r the start and end dates of the activities have been set, it is common for the
project team members assigned to the activities to review their assignments. The team
members should confirm that the start and end dates do not conflict with resource
calendars or assigned activities in other projects or tasks and are therefore still valid. The
schedule is then analyzed to identify conflicts with logical relationships and to determine
if resource leveling is required before the schedule is approved and used as a baseline.
◾ With a draft schedule, it is easier and more accurate to estimate the labor and physical
resources required to complete the project objectives. Those resource estimates may
influence the decision as to whether the draft schedule is or is not acceptable, and thus
may require further adjustment and revision.
2.3.2.3 Monitor and Control Schedule
Monitor and Control Schedule is the process of monitoring the status of the project to update
the project schedule and managing changes to the agreed-upon schedule. Updating the schedule
requires knowing the actual or forecasted performance to date. The key benefit of this process is
maintaining a realistic schedule throughout the duration of the project (see Figure 2-24).
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.