93
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
not materialize in a portfolio, program, or project. Potentially harmful risks, often called
threats, may negatively impact one or more project objectives through project delays,
cost overruns, or reputation damage. Positive risks, better known as opportunities, may
positively affect one or more project objectives, including a potential increase in market
share, cost savings, or a positive environmental impact. A risk may be described in a
“cause, event, and consequence” structure (see the risk register in Section 4 on Inputs and
Outputs). Risks can also be classified into unknown-known, unknown-unknown, known-
known, and known-unknown (see Figure 2-46).
⚫
Issue. An issue is a current condition or situation that may have an impact on one or
more project objectives. An issue has already occurred and may require immediate
action or management attention. Reviewing the project issue log and risk register can
identify challenges associated with individual stakeholders. Risks and issues may be
closely related as an issue may arise from a poorly managed risk. However, issues also
differ from risks as issues have already occurred or are still occurring, whereas risks are
potential future problems that have not yet occurred.
⚫
Overall risk. Overall risk is the effect of uncertainty on the portfolio, program, or project
as a whole. Overall risk may arise from everything that is uncertain or unknown in the
project, including individual risks. Responses to overall project risk are the same as
for individual threats and opportunities, though responses are applied to the overall
project rather than to a specific event. If the overall risk to the project is too high, the
organization may choose to cancel the project.
Unknown–Known
Knowledge exists in the
community but not with the
entity working on the endeavor.
(Hidden fact)
Unknown–Unknown
Knowledge does not exist
within the sphere of inﬂuence.
(Emergent risk)
Known–Known
Managed as a part of scope.
Not a risk.
(Facts and requirements)
Known–Unknown
There is knowledge to identify
probability and impact.
(Classic risk)
Figure 2-46. Risk Classification
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.