132
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
used in the requirements traceability matrix may include a unique identifier, a textual description
of the requirement, the rationale for inclusion, the owner, source, priority, version, current status
(e.g., active, canceled, deferred, added, approved, assigned, completed), and status date. Additional
attributes to help ensure that the requirement has met stakeholder satisfaction may include stability,
complexity, and acceptance criteria. Figure 4-3 provides an example of a requirements traceability
matrix with its associated attributes.
Resource breakdown structure. A resource breakdown structure is a hierarchical representation of
resources by category and type. Examples of resource categories include but are not limited to labor,
materials, equipment, and supplies. Resource types may include the skill level, grade level, required
certifications, or other information as appropriate to the project. See Figure 4-4 for an example.
Resource calendar.  A resource calendar is a calendar that identifies the working days and
shifts during which each specific resource is available. The calendar should include the start and
end of normal business hours, weekends, and public holidays when each specific resource is
available. Information on which resources (such as team resources, equipment, and materials) are
potentially available during a planned activity period is used for estimating resource utilization.
Resource calendars also specify when, and for how long, identified team and physical or virtual
resources will be available during the project. This information may be at the activity or project
level. This calendar may include consideration of attributes such as resource experience and/or
skill level, as well as various geographical locations.
Resource management plan. A resource management plan is a component of the project management
plan that describes how project resources are acquired, allocated, monitored, and controlled. The plan
Requirements Traceability Matrix
Requirements DescriptionID
Business Needs,
Opportunities,
Goals, Objectives
Project
Objectives
Associate
ID
WBS
Deliverables
Product
Design
Product
Development
Test
Cases
Programs PortfoliosProject Name:
Cost Center:
Project Description:
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.2.1
2.0
2.1
2.1.1
3.0
3.1
3.2
4.0
5.0
001
002
003
004
005
Figure 4-3. Example of a Requirements Traceability Matrix
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.