250
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
⚫ Delivery dates;
⚫ Regulatory, compliance, or industry standards expertise or experience;
⚫ Technical expertise and approach;
⚫ Specific relevant experience;
⚫ Adequacy of the proposed approach and work plan in responding to the SOW;
⚫ Key team members’ qualifications, availability, and competences;
⚫ Financial stability of the firm;
⚫ Management experience;
⚫ Suitability of the knowledge transfer program, including training; and
⚫ Sustainability credentials of the supplier.
For international projects, evaluation criteria may include “local content” requirements (e.g.,
participation by nationals among proposed key team members). This approach provides a more
relevant cultural understanding.
The specific criteria may be a numerical score, color code, or a written description of how well the
seller satisfies the buying organization’s needs. The criteria will be part of a weighting system that
can be used to select a single seller that will be asked to sign a contract and establish a negotiating
sequence by ranking all the proposals by the weighted evaluation scores assigned to each
proposal.
X4.8 Contract Type
Understanding various contract types is crucial for project managers, as it directly impacts project
risk allocation, collaboration dynamics, and overall project success. Contract types define the terms
and conditions under which goods, services, or results are acquired from external sources. Contract
types establish the framework for financial arrangements, risk distribution, and the nature of
relationships among project stakeholders.
Project managers should approach contract types from a dual perspective: as both a contractor
and a client/customer. This dual viewpoint is essential because projects often involve both roles—
contracting vendors as a customer and being contracted by clients. The project manager should
consider both of these vantage points in order to successfully support effective procurement.
Each contract type has its advantages and disadvantages, and there are potential ways to exploit
contractual terms. However, the goal should always be to structure contracts in a way that benefits
all parties, creating a win-win scenario that fosters collaboration and project success.
In this appendix, we will explore two main categories of contract types: established contract models
and collaborative contract models. By understanding these contract types and their implications,
project managers can make informed decisions when selecting or negotiating contracts, balancing
risk allocation, incentivizing performance, and creating collaborative environments that contribute to
project success.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.