142
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
⚫ Assessment information. Major requirements, expectations, potential for influencing
project outcomes, and the phase of the project life cycle where the stakeholder has the
most influence or impact.
⚫ Stakeholder classification. Internal/external, impact/influence/power/interest, upward/
downward/outward/sideward, or any other classification model chosen by the project
manager.
Status report. A status report is a document that provides information on the current status of the
project. The report may include information on progress since the last report and forecasts for cost
and schedule performance.
Team charter. The team charter is a document that establishes the values, agreements, and
operating guidelines for the team. The team charter may include but is not limited to the following:
⚫
Team values,
⚫ Communication guidelines,
⚫ Decision-making criteria and processes,
⚫ Conflict resolution processes,
⚫ Meeting guidelines, and
⚫ Team agreements.
The team charter establishes clear expectations regarding acceptable behavior by project team
members. Early commitment to clear guidelines decreases misunderstandings and increases
productivity. Discussing areas such as codes of conduct, communication, decision-making, and
meeting etiquette allows team members to discover values that are important to one another. The
team charter works best when the team develops it or at least has an opportunity to contribute to it.
All project team members share responsibility for ensuring the rules documented in the team charter
are followed. The team charter can be reviewed and updated periodically to ensure a continued
understanding of the team ground rules and to orient and integrate new team members.
Team performance assessments. As project team development efforts such as training, team
building, and colocation are implemented, the project management team makes formal or informal
assessments of the project team’s effectiveness. Effective team development strategies and activities
are expected to increase the team’s performance, which increases the likelihood of meeting project
objectives.
The evaluation of a team’s effectiveness may include indicators such as:
⚫
Improvements in skills that allow individuals to perform assignments more effectively,
⚫ Improvements in competencies that help team members perform better as a team,
⚫ Reduced staff turnover rate, and
⚫ Increased team cohesiveness where team members share information and experiences
openly and help one another to improve the overall project performance.
As a result of conducting an evaluation of the team’s overall performance, the project management
team can identify the specific training, coaching, mentoring, assistance, or changes required
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.