249
Appendix X4
X4.6 Source Selection Analysis
It is necessary to review the prioritization of the competing demands for the project before deciding
on the selection method. Since competitive selection methods may require sellers to invest a large
amount of time and resources up front, it is a good practice to include the evaluation method in
the tender documents so bidders know how they will be evaluated. This transparency helps infuse
stakeholder trust in the selection method. Commonly used selection methods include the following:
⚫
Least cost. The least cost method may be appropriate for procurements of a standard or
routine nature where well-established practices and standards exist and from which a specific
and well-defined outcome is expected that can be executed at different costs. In more
complex procurements, least cost should be avoided as it may negatively impact quality.
⚫
Qualifications only. The qualifications-only selection method applies when the time and
cost of a full selection process would not make sense because the value of the procurement
is relatively small. The buyer establishes a short list and selects the bidder with the
strongest qualifications, expertise, and references.
⚫
Quality-based/highest technical proposal score. The selected firm is asked to submit a
proposal with both technical and cost details and is then invited to negotiate the contract
if the technical proposal proves acceptable. Using this method, technical proposals are
first evaluated based on the quality of the technical solution offered. The seller that
submitted the highest ranked technical proposal is selected if their financial proposal can
be negotiated and accepted.
⚫
Quality and cost based. The quality-and-cost-based method allows cost to be included as
a factor in the seller-selection process. In general, when risk and/or uncertainty are greater
for the project, quality should be a key element when compared to cost.
⚫
Single source. Single-source procurement is a formal process where only one supplier
can satisfy the technical requirements due to unique technical competence and expertise.
This method is used when there is only one source verified to possess patents or exclusive
rights to manufacture and furnish the item or service. It is not an attempt to contract with a
favored provider but is employed when no other options are available.
⚫
Fixed budget. The fixed-budget method requires disclosing the available budget to
invited sellers in the request and selecting the highest ranking technical proposal within
the budget. Because sellers are subject to a cost constraint, they will adapt the scope and
quality of their offer to that budget. The buyer should therefore ensure that the budget is
compatible with the statement of work (SOW) and that the seller will be able to perform
the tasks within the budget. This method is appropriate only when the SOW is precisely
defined, no changes are anticipated, and the budget is fixed and cannot be exceeded.
X4.7 Source Selection Criteria
In choosing evaluation criteria, the buyer seeks to ensure that the proposal selected will offer the
best quality for the services required. The source selection criteria may include but are not limited to
the following:
⚫
Capability and capacity;
⚫ Product cost and life cycle cost;
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.