270
network path. A sequence of activities connected by logical relationships in a project schedule
network diagram.
objective. Something toward which work is to be directed—a strategic position to be attained,
a purpose to be achieved, a result to be obtained, a product to be produced, or a service to be
performed.
opportunity. A risk that would have a positive effect on one or more portfolio, program, or project
objectives. See also issue, risk, and threat.
organizational breakdown structure. A hierarchical representation of the project organization that
illustrates the relationship between project activities and the organizational units that will perform
those activities.
outcome. An end result or consequence of a process or project.
performance measurement. Measures that characterize physical or functional attributes relating to
system operation.
phase gate. A review at the end of a phase in which a decision is made to continue to the next phase,
to continue with modification, or to end a program or project. See also project phase.
plan. A proposed means of accomplishing something.
planned value (PV). The authorized budget assigned to scheduled work. See also actual cost (AC),
budget at completion (BAC), earned value (EV), estimate at completion (EAC), and estimate to complete (ETC).
Planning Focus Area. Those processes that establish the total scope of the effort, define and refine
the objectives, and develop the course of action required to attain those objectives.
portfolio. A collection of programs, projects, and operations managed as a group to maximize overall
value delivery and achieve strategic objectives, meet mandatory obligations, or generate income
streams. See also program and project.
portfolio management. The centralized management of one or more portfolios to achieve strategic
objectives. See also program management and project management.
precision. Within the quality management system, precision is an assessment of exactness.
predictive approach. A development approach in which the project scope, time, and cost are
determined in the early phases of the life cycle.
prioritization matrix. A scatter diagram that plots effort against value so as to classify items by
priority.
product. An artifact that is produced, is quantifiable, and can be either an end item in itself or a
component item.
product life cycle. A series of phases that represent the evolution of a product, from concept
through delivery, growth, maturity, and to retirement. See also project life cycle.
product management. The integration of people, data, processes, and business systems to create,
maintain, and evolve a product or service throughout its life cycle.
product owner. A person responsible for maximizing the value of the product and is accountable for
the end product.
product scope. The features and functions that characterize a product, service, or result. See also
project scope and scope.
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.