194
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Available float is used for leveling resources. Consequently, the critical path through the
project schedule may change.
⚫ Resource smoothing. A resource optimization technique in which free and total float are
used without affecting the critical path. Resource smoothing is a technique that adjusts
the activities of a schedule model such that the requirements for resources on the project
do not exceed certain predefined resource limits. In resource smoothing, as opposed to
resource leveling, the project’s critical path is not changed and the completion date may not
be delayed. In other words, activities may only be delayed within their free and total float.
Resource smoothing may not be able to optimize all resources.
Resource-based view. Resource-based view is a managerial framework for identifying strategic
resources that can provide an enterprise with a competitive advantage against its competitors.
The resource-based view emphasizes evaluating the organizational internal assets, capabilities,
and competencies to achieve superior competitive performance or project deliverables. Enterprise
strengths and weaknesses of resources and capabilities and their competitive advantage can be
evaluated using a framework like VRIO. VRIO stands for value, rarity, imitability, and organization:
⚫
Value can include both tangible and intangible resources and capabilities.
⚫ Rarity means that resources and capabilities are not available to other enterprises.
⚫ Imitability is the extent to which resources and capabilities are difficult to imitate.
⚫ Organization means that the enterprise is effectively utilizing its resources and capabilities.
Responsibility assignment matrix. A responsibility assignment matrix is a grid that shows the
project resources assigned to each work package. The matrix is used to illustrate the connections
between work packages, or activities, and project team members. On larger projects, a responsibility
assignment matrix can be developed at various levels. For example, a high-level matrix can define
the responsibilities of a project team, group, or unit within each component of the WBS. A lower-level
matrix can be used within the group to designate roles, responsibilities, and levels of authority for
specific activities. The matrix format shows all activities associated with one person and all people
associated with one activity. This format also ensures that there is only one person accountable
for any one task to avoid confusion about who is ultimately in charge or has authority for the work.
One example of a responsibility assignment matrix is a RACI (responsible, accountable, consulted,
informed) matrix, shown in Figure 5-19. The sample chart shows the work to be done in the left
column as activities. The assigned resources can be shown as individuals or groups. The project
manager can select other options, such as “lead” and “resource” designations, as appropriate for the
project. A RACI matrix is a useful tool to ensure the clear assignment of roles and responsibilities
when the team consists of internal and external resources.
Retrospectives. A retrospective is a regularly occurring workshop in which participants explore their
work and results in order to improve both the process and product. Retrospectives are a form of a
lessons learned meeting and are conducted frequently throughout the project (at minimum, at the
end of each iteration). Retrospectives usually cover process-based questions such as what worked
well and what did not and what are the project team recommendations for future iterations. The
term retrospective is usually used within adaptive development approaches but can refer to any
lessons learned session in any approach.
This frequent reflection helps ensure that the team can quickly address issues and implement
improvements, rather than waiting until the end of the project. The entire project team participates in
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.