45
Section 3 – Project Management Principles
⚫ Timely delivery, enhanced cost control, and attainment of the level of product quality
associated with meeting or exceeding target objectives;
⚫ Reduced rework, scrap, customer complaints, and other types of waste;
⚫ Effective supply chain integration, increased productivity, and robust service delivery;
⚫ Higher project team morale and satisfaction;
⚫ Reduced negative impact on the environment, including avoiding the unnecessary
consumption of natural resources and emissions due to rework activities, as well as the
overhead of managing activities that may require travel; and
⚫ Better decision-making and continuous process improvement.
3.5.2 Principle in Action
To provide an example of the Embed Quality Into Processes and Deliverables principle in action,
consider a company that is expanding its wholesale shipping services to support an unfamiliar
regional market. A conventional approach would focus on meeting the governmental shipping
specifications for each target market and ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements.
In contrast, a quality-driven approach would investigate the expectations of the broader stakeholder
system, including target distributors and retailers. This deeper analysis might reveal that high-value
customers have stricter standards than regulatory bodies, which could influence packaging, delivery
times, or product handling. By addressing these higher standards, the company not only meets legal
requirements but also exceeds customer expectations, leading to stronger market entry, enhanced
customer satisfaction, and potentially greater market share.
3.5.3 Connected Performance Domains
The Embed Quality Into Processes and Deliverables principle is critical in all project management
performance domains because it is essential to ensuring that project outcomes meet stakeholder
needs and expectations. This principle should be embedded in the project’s design across people,
processes, and structure. Different industries, companies, and contexts have different approaches
to quality, but commitment to achieving the right level of quality is entrenched in the successful
outcomes of all projects, across domain areas. A lack of commitment to the right level of quality in
any domain can lead to erosion of the end result and poor project outcomes. This quality-focused
principle affects the performance domains in the following ways:
⚫
Governance. Embedding quality into governance processes improves transparency and
accountability. Governance structures help ensure that quality standards are met and can
enable decisions that prioritize quality in all project activities.
⚫
Scope. The connection between quality and the Scope performance domain is particularly
strong, as scope management inherently involves quality management activities. Ensuring
that project deliverables meet the requirements, necessary standards, and specifications is
an important aspect of scope management. By embedding the right level of quality into the
scope, the project team can ensure that all deliverables are not only completed within the
defined boundaries, but also meet quality standards, which prevents rework and ensures
stakeholder satisfaction.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.