141
Section 4 – Inputs and Outputs
Scope management plan. A scope management plan is a component of the program or project
management plan that describes how the scope will be defined, developed, monitored, controlled,
and validated.
The components of a scope management plan include the following:
⚫
Process for preparing a project scope statement,
⚫ Process that enables the creation of the work breakdown structure (WBS) from the detailed
project scope statement,
⚫ Process that establishes how the scope baseline will be approved and maintained, and
⚫ Process that specifies how formal acceptance of the completed project deliverables will be
obtained.
The scope management plan can be formal or informal and broadly framed or highly detailed, based
on the needs of the project.
Skill matrix. The skill matrix is a tool that maps out the skills and competencies required for a
team or project and compares them against the skills available within the team. The matrix is used
to identify any gaps in skills that should be addressed for the successful completion of a project.
Creating and updating a skill matrix is an ongoing process that should be revisited regularly to ensure
it reflects the current capabilities of the team and the needs of the project.
Sourcing strategy plan. The sourcing strategy plan is a component of the project management plan
that describes which elements of the project will be insourced, outsourced, or both. The sourcing
strategy should contain the rationale for a given approach, based on the desired impact to project
value, schedule, risk, finances, or other considerations. A sourcing strategy can be formal or informal,
highly detailed or broadly framed, and is based upon the needs of each project. The sourcing strategy
plan may or may not include the details of how outsourced procurement should be performed. The
components of the sourcing strategy plan may include the following:
⚫
Insourcing or outsourcing decisions, and
⚫ Source selection criteria.
Stakeholder engagement plan. The stakeholder engagement plan is a component of the program
or project management plan that identifies the strategies and actions required to promote
productive involvement of stakeholders in program or project decision-making and execution.
The plan can be formal or informal and highly detailed or broadly framed, based on the needs of
the project and the expectations of stakeholders. The stakeholder engagement plan may include
but is not limited to specific strategies or approaches for engaging with individuals or groups of
stakeholders.
Stakeholder register. A stakeholder register is a project document that contains information
about project stakeholders, including an assessment and classification of project stakeholders. This
document contains information about the identified stakeholders that includes but is not limited to
the following:
⚫
Identification information. Name, organizational position, location and contact details,
and role on the project.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.