39
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
for managing scope by focusing on value-driven outcomes, enabling continuous
prioritization, and maintaining alignment with stakeholder expectations.
⚫ Definition of done (DoD). The DoD is a checklist of all the criteria required to be met so
that a deliverable can be considered ready for customer use. In projects using an adaptive
approach, a DoD is a shared understanding of the specific criteria that should be met
before a piece of work (e.g., a user story, feature, or increment) is considered complete and
ready for release to the next stage or the customer.
2.2.2 Processes
The Scope performance domain encompasses the processes necessary to define, develop, monitor,
control, and verify the scope of a project, ensuring alignment with stakeholder expectations and
project objectives. The following processes are included in this performance domain (see Figure 2-13):
⚫
Plan Scope Management. The process of creating a scope management plan that
documents how the project and product scope will be defined, validated, and controlled.
⚫
Elicit and Analyze Requirements. The process of determining, documenting, and
managing stakeholder needs and requirements to meet project objectives.
⚫
Define Scope. The process of developing a detailed or high-level description of the
project and product. In agile projects, the scope is typically considered at a high level,
often represented by the product roadmap with its releases. This process also identifies
the quality requirements and standards for the deliverables—and how to demonstrate
compliance with them.
Figure 2-13. Scope Performance Domain Processes Overview
ClosingPlanning
Executing
Monitoring and Controlling
Initiating
Elicit and
Analyze
Requirements
Plan
Scope
Management
Deﬁne
Scope
Develop
Scope
Structure
Monitor and
Control
Scope
Validate
Scope
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.