105
Section 3 – Tailoring
involve (a) the use of predictive approaches for the physical building construction and finishing and
(b) an adaptive approach for understanding and establishing the computing capabilities required.
Viewed from a project level, this combination of approaches represents a hybrid approach, but the
construction team and the computing team may only experience a predictive or adaptive development
approach.
3.3.2 Processes
Process tailoring involves determining which elements should be either:
⚫
Added, to address unique conditions or increase rigor;
⚫ Modified, to better fit project or team needs, including adjusting inputs, outputs, and tools
and techniques;
⚫ Removed, to reduce unnecessary cost or effort;
⚫ Blended, to combine elements for added value; or
⚫ Aligned, to ensure consistency in definition and application.
3.3.3 Engagement
Tailoring engagement for the people involved in the project includes the following:
⚫
People. This effort involves assessing the skills and capabilities of the project leadership
and team, ensuring they adapt to evolving project needs.
⚫ Empowerment. Empowerment involves choosing which responsibilities and forms of local
decision-making should be deferred to the project team. The project environment and team
member capabilities can lead to high levels of empowerment, while in other cases more
supervision and directions may be required.
⚫
Integration. Tailoring considers how to create one project team from a diverse collection
of contributors (contracted entities, channel partners, and other external entities, in
addition to staff from inside the sponsoring organization) to facilitate optimal project team
performance and the realization of project outcomes.
3.4 The Tailoring Process
Projects exist in environments that hugely influence how projects are executed and their resulting
outcomes. Prior to tailoring, the project environment should be thoroughly analyzed and understood.
Tailoring begins by selecting a development approach (e.g., predictive, adaptive, or hybrid), tailoring it
for the organization and project, and finally, implementing its ongoing improvement. These steps are
shown in Figure 3-1 and described in detail in Sections 3.4.1 through 3.4.4.
3.4.1 Select Initial Development Approach
This step determines the development approach that will be used for the project. Project teams apply
their knowledge of the product, delivery cadence, and awareness of the available options to select
the most appropriate development approach for the situation.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.