173
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
Influencing. Because project managers often have little or no direct authority over team members
in a matrix environment, their ability to influence stakeholders on a timely basis is critical to project
success. Key influencing skills include the following:
⚫ Ability to be persuasive;
⚫ Clearly articulating points and positions;
⚫ High levels of active and effective listening skills;
⚫ Awareness of, and consideration for, the various perspectives in any situation; and
⚫ Gathering relevant information to address issues and reach agreements while maintaining
mutual trust.
Information management. Information management tools and techniques are used to create and
connect people to information. These tools are effective for sharing simple, unambiguous, codified
explicit knowledge. The tools include but are not limited to the following:
⚫
Methods for codifying explicit knowledge (e.g., for producing lessons-to-be-learned entries
for the lessons learned register);
⚫ Lessons learned register;
⚫ Library services;
⚫ Information gathering (e.g., web searches and reading published articles); and
⚫ Project management information system (PMIS), which often includes document
management systems.
Tools and techniques that connect people to information can be enhanced by adding an element of
interaction (e.g., including a “contact me” function so users can get in touch with the originators of the
lessons and ask for advice specific to their project and context).
Interaction and support also help people to find relevant information. Asking for help is generally
quicker and easier than trying to identify search terms. Search terms are often difficult to select
because people may not know which keywords or phrases to use to access the information they
need.
Knowledge and information management tools and techniques should be connected to project
processes and process owners. Communities of practice and subject matter experts, for example,
may generate insights that lead to improved control processes (having an internal sponsor can
ensure improvements are implemented). Lessons learned entries may be analyzed to identify
common issues that can be addressed by changes to project procedures.
Information radiators.  An information radiator is a visible, physical display that provides
information to the rest of the organization, enabling timely knowledge sharing. Information
radiators may also be known as big visible charts. Information radiators are posted in a place
where people can see the information easily, rather than having information in a scheduling
or reporting tool. The information radiators should be easy to update and should be updated
frequently. They are often “low tech and high touch” in that they are manually maintained rather
than electronically generated. Figure 5-9 shows an information radiator associated with work
completed, work remaining, and risks.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.