158
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Continuous improvement. Continuous improvement is an ongoing process that focuses on
efforts to improve processes, products, systems, or services. It involves identifying, analyzing, and
implementing incremental improvements. Continuous improvement can use approaches such as
plan-do-check-act (PDCA), Lean, Total Quality Management, Six Sigma, Five Focusing Steps (5FS), and
similar methods.
Control charts.  Control charts are used to determine whether or not a process is stable or has
predictable performance. Upper and lower specification limits are based on the requirements
and reflect the maximum and minimum values allowed. Upper and lower control limits are
different from specification limits. The control limits are determined using standard statistical
calculations and principles to ultimately establish the natural capability for a stable process. The
project manager and appropriate stakeholders may use the statistically calculated control limits
to identify the points at which corrective action will be taken to prevent performance that remains
outside the control limits. Control charts can be used to monitor various types of output variables.
Although used most frequently to track repetitive activities required for producing manufactured
lots, control charts may also be used to monitor cost and schedule variances, volume, frequency
of scope changes, or other management results to help determine if the project management
processes are in control.
Cost aggregation. Cost aggregation is a cost estimate that is aggregated by work packages in
accordance with the work breakdown structure (WBS). The work package cost estimates are then
aggregated for the higher component levels of the WBS (such as control accounts) and, ultimately, for
the entire project.
Cost-benefit analysis. Cost-benefit analysis is a financial analysis method used to determine the
benefits provided by a project against its costs. The analysis is used to estimate the strengths and
weaknesses of alternatives in order to determine the best alternative in terms of benefits provided. A
cost-benefit analysis can help the project manager to determine if project activities are cost-effective.
A cost-benefit analysis compares the cost of an activity to the expected benefit.
Cost of quality (CoQ).  The cost of quality includes all costs incurred over the life of the product
by investment in preventing nonconformance to requirements, appraisal of the product or service
for conformance to requirements, and failure to meet requirements. The CoQ associated with a
project consists of one or more of the following costs (see Figure 5-3, which lists examples for each
cost group):
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.