40
⚫ Scope. The principle of Adopt a Holistic View helps foster alignment of all project activities
with the overall project scope, preventing scope creep and misalignment by considering
the entire project ecosystem. Also, by promoting clarity on the organizational objectives
to be achieved rather than merely the end deliverables, the principle encourages
creative solutioning, allowing an equal opportunity to achieve simpler but more effective,
sustainable, and long-lasting solutions.
⚫
Schedule. A holistic view improves scheduling by considering the interdependencies of all
project activities, making timelines more realistic and adaptive to changes and maintaining
alignment with project goals. By implementing a holistic view, the project management team
can ensure that the most relevant what-if scenarios are drawn out and evaluated, and that
candidate baseline changes are evaluated for which one might yield the highest return on
investment for that project—and for the project’s portfolio and program contexts overall.
⚫
Finance. A holistic approach optimizes financial management by aligning budget allocations
with project priorities, controlling project costs effectively, and anticipating financial impacts
of changes within the broader project context—all aimed at maximizing returns on project
investments.
⚫
Stakeholders. The Adopt a Holistic View principle enhances the engagement of all relevant
stakeholders, from departments to vendors to customers. This engagement is done
by ensuring inclusive participation in decision-making processes, leading to improved
satisfaction and collaboration as their perspectives are integrated into the project strategy.
⚫
Resources. Having a holistic mindset also emphasizes understanding how all project
components are intended to integrate in order to maximize the project’s value proposition.
This view makes it easier to drive the flow of completed work, avoid unnecessary resource
conflicts, optimize the use of project resources within a portfolio or program, and equip and
empower team members to execute the work, all according to what drives the most value.
⚫
Risk. A holistic view facilitates proactive risk management by identifying and managing risks
across all project domains, understanding their interdependencies, and developing robust
risk management strategies.
3.4 Focus on Value
Value, also referred to as project value, is the ultimate success indicator and driver of projects. Value
can be described and assessed using either measurable metrics, such as return on investment, or
qualitative observations such as testimonials and societal benefits. Value represents the overall
worth of the project outcomes and the net benefits to stakeholders (see Figure 3-3). This value
encompasses the deliverables and their related outcomes, particularly from the perspective of
key stakeholders. Value can be expressed in various ways, such as financial contributions to the
sponsoring or receiving organization, social benefits, or the customer’s perceived benefits from the
project result. Regardless of their form, all projects exist to pursue target organizational objectives
that are worth more than what is invested in pursuit of those objectives—often significantly more
than what might be available via alternative investment options.
Project justification and organizational strategy, often detailed in a business case, provide the project
team with the necessary information to make decisions that meet or exceed the intended business
value. Desired outcomes should be clearly described, iteratively assessed, and updated throughout
the project life cycle using quality gates, feedback loops, and regular reviews. The project team
should adapt to changes and continuously evaluate alignment with the desired outputs, baselines,
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.