180
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
landscaping could be scheduled to start 2 weeks prior to the scheduled punch list completion. This
activity would be shown as a finish-to-start (FS) with a 2-week lead as shown in Figure 5-12. A lead is
often represented as a negative value for lag in scheduling software.
A lag is the amount of time whereby a successor activity will be delayed with respect to a predecessor
activity. For example, a technical writing team may begin editing the draft of a large document
15 days after they begin writing it. This can be shown as a start-to-start (SS) relationship with a 15-day
lag as shown in Figure 5-12.
The project management team determines the dependencies that may require a lead or a lag to
accurately define the logical relationship. The use of leads and lags should not replace schedule logic.
Also, duration estimates do not include any leads or lags. Activities and their related assumptions
should be documented.
Leads and lags can also be represented in project schedule network diagrams. For more details, see
the entry for project schedule network diagrams in Section 4.
Logical relationship. A logical relationship is a dependency between two activities or between an
activity and a milestone. The four most common types of logical relationships are finish-to-start,
finish-to-finish, start-to-start, and start-to-finish. See also precedence diagramming method.
Make-or-buy analysis and decisions. Make-or-buy analysis is the decision-making process of
gathering and organizing data about product requirements and analyzing them against available
alternatives, including the purchase or internal manufacture of the product. A make-or-buy analysis
results in a make-or-buy decision as to whether particular work can be best accomplished by the
project team or if it should be purchased from outside sources.
Market research. Market research is a data-gathering technique that includes examination of
industry and specific seller capabilities. Procurement teams may leverage information gained at
conferences, online reviews, and a variety of sources to identify market capabilities. The team may
also refine specific procurement objectives to leverage maturing technologies while balancing risks
associated with the breadth of sellers who can provide the desired materials or services.
Figure 5-12. Examples of Lead and Lag
Write
Draft
SS – 15 Days (Lag)FS – 2 Weeks (Lead)
Complete
Punch List
Landscape
Building Lot
Edit
Draft
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.