34
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Additionally, it is essential to assess whether the governance and integration in adaptive projects
will lean toward self-governing teams and a total-quality approach. Determining whether and how
a project management office should be involved is another critical step. Deciding if the team will
establish a governance board and identifying which committees or stakeholders should be involved
are further considerations to help tailor the governance approach to fit the specific needs and
context of the project.
⚫
Guided self-governance. Agile or adaptive projects are designed to be self-governing,
meaning that the teams involved have the autonomy to make decisions and manage their
work without heavy bureaucracy and oversight. Instead, these teams manage their work
with light governance and clear-set boundaries and guardrails. In this way, agile teams
are empowered to make decisions about their work processes, priorities, and problem-
solving approaches—essentially, self-governance. Additionally, successful agile teams are
comfortable with uncertainty and are willing to engage in collaborative decision-making.
This collaboration involves facilitating open discussions, exploring differing opinions, and
using constructive feedback to navigate through unknowns together. As an example, the
practice of daily coordination meetings helps ensure teams maintain focus and alignment
and serves as a self-governing mechanism toward that end. Adaptive teams operate
with autonomy, leveraging iterative planning, collaborative decision-making, and focused
communication to drive continuous improvement, which can lead to successful self-
governance.
⚫
Project life cycle adaptations. Governance should also be tailored to be appropriate for
predictive, adaptive, and hybrid life cycles. This tailoring involves a continuous and iterative
process of adapting the approach, governance, and processes to suit the unique objectives,
stakeholders, and complexity of the environment. Such deliberate adaptation aims to
maximize value, manage constraints, and improve performance by using “just enough”
processes, methods, templates, and artifacts to achieve the desired project outcomes.
For projects that apply lean/agile approaches, governance may be provided by the project
team only in the artifacts and events of the project. Predictive projects may have heavier
governance requirements due to internal and external constraints. Project managers
should tailor the appropriate framework to enable flexibility and consistently produce
positive outcomes within the project’s life cycle context. Factors such as the business
environment, regulatory requirements, need for innovation, market conditions, team size,
degree of uncertainty, and project complexity play a crucial role in how project systems are
tailored. Additionally, organizations with established process governance should ensure
that tailoring aligns with policy and strategy. The Disciplined Agile
® (DA®) tool kit offers
further guidance on lean/agile governance.
2.1.7.1 Examples
The following are three examples of how these considerations might be applied:
⚫ Example 1. A project may or may not be governed by a project management office
(PMO). Thus, project managers should ensure that their governing approach is focused
on delivering maximum value. In a small organization, the project manager may make
decisions regarding project governance with other key leaders, while a project manager
with access to a PMO in a large organization may partner with PMO leadership and/or other
portfolio, program, and project managers to help ensure that a project is appropriately
governed to achieve strategic alignment and deliver value.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.