66
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
⚫ Procurement strategy. Make-or-buy decisions are connected to the procurement strategy.
For buy decisions, procurement tailoring involves selecting the appropriate contract type,
such as fixed-price or time and materials (T&M) contracts, based on risk distribution and
cost certainty, which may have multiple implications for the financial side of the project. It is
important to tailor the financial processes with the procurement strategy to minimize the risk
of cost overruns. Sometimes organizations make a buy decision to outsource if they do not
have the in-house infrastructure or technologies needed to internally complete the project.
⚫
Value definition. The definition of value may vary from one performing organization to
another.
⚫ Resource availability. Constraints in human resources, as well as physical or virtual
resources, may increase a project’s actual and forecasted costs due to higher wages or
training costs, expedited shipping fees, rental surcharges, additional labor costs, overhead,
or penalties for late delivery. See Section 2.6 on the Resources performance domain and
enterprise environmental factors (EEFs).
2.4.3.1 Examples
The following are three examples of how these considerations might be applied:
⚫
Example 1. A project with an adaptive life cycle may require frequent adjustments to the
contract and budget. Thus, contracts should be structured in a way that reflects budget
expenditures in alignment with the iterative progress and cadence of the project.
⚫
Example 2. A small project may have limited financial flexibility. Thus, a conservative
approach to budgeting with contingency and management reserves is crucial to mitigate
risks and ensure project stability.
⚫
Example 3. A project in the government sector may have a higher demand for fiscal
accountability and risk aversion, due to public accountability and regulatory requirements.
Thus, budget reserves should be evaluated with a greater buffer to account for potential
risks and uncertainties, ensuring that the project can handle any unforeseen financial
challenges without compromising its objectives. This effort is influenced by the sponsor and
stakeholders, who may prioritize maintaining a higher buffer to mitigate risks.
2.4.4 Interactions With Other Domains
Finance is one of the key pillars of a successful project as it provides access to the resources necessary
for its proper execution. In that sense, financial resources and constraints have a direct impact on the
Governance, Scope, and Schedule performance domains. The decisions made in those performance
domains may affect the Finance performance domain, just as financial activities may affect the other
domains. Additionally, the Finance performance domain may be impacted by other performance
domains, such as Stakeholders and Risk. On a broader scale, maximizing value delivery should be the
primary goal of a project, connecting its results to the performing organization’s strategy.
2.4.5 Check Results
Activities related to the Finance performance domain should be considered successful only if they
contribute to specific outcomes. Table 2-8 shows a set of sample target outcomes, along with a
potential check to confirm whether those outcomes are met.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.