267
cost performance index (CPI). A measure of the cost efficiency of budgeted resources expressed as
the ratio of earned value to actual cost. See also schedule performance index (SPI).
cost-reimbursable contract. A type of contract involving payment to the seller for the seller’s actual
costs, plus a fee typically representing the seller’s profit.
cost variance (CV). The amount of budget deficit or surplus at a given point in time, expressed as the
difference between the earned value and the actual cost. See also schedule variance (SV).
crashing. A schedule compression technique used to shorten the schedule duration for the least
incremental cost by adding resources. See also fast tracking.
criteria. Standards, rules, or tests on which a judgment or decision can be based or by which a
product, service, result, or process can be evaluated.
critical path. The sequence of activities that represents the longest path through a project, which
determines the shortest possible duration.
cumulative flow diagram. A chart indicating features completed over time, features in other states
of development, and those in the backlog.
dashboard. A set of charts and graphs showing progress or performance against important
measures of the project.
definition of done (DoD). A checklist of all the criteria required to be met so that a deliverable can
be considered ready for customer use.
duration. The total number of work periods required to complete an activity or work breakdown
structure component, expressed in hours, days, or weeks. See also effort.
earned value (EV). The measure of work performed expressed in terms of the budget authorized for
that work. See also actual cost (AC), budget at completion (BAC), estimate at completion (EAC), estimate to
complete (ETC), and planned value (PV).
effort. The number of labor units required to complete a schedule activity or work breakdown
structure component, often expressed in hours, days, or weeks. See also duration.
epic. A large, related body of work intended to hierarchically organize a set of requirements and
deliver specific business outcomes.
estimate. A quantitative assessment of the likely amount or outcome of a variable, such as project
costs, resources, effort, or durations.
estimate at completion (EAC). The expected total cost of completing all work expressed as the sum
of the actual cost to date and the estimate to complete. See also actual cost (AC), budget at completion
(BAC), earned value (EV), estimate to complete (ETC), and planned value (PV).
estimate to complete (ETC). The expected cost to finish all the remaining project work. See also
actual cost (AC), budget at completion (BAC), earned value (EV), estimate at completion (EAC), and planned
value (PV).
Executing Focus Area. Consists of those processes performed to complete the work in a manner
consistent with the integrated baseline, which can and should be changed whenever such a change
would enhance the value proposition of the project.
expected monetary value (EMV). The estimated value of an outcome expressed in monetary terms.
explicit knowledge. Knowledge that can be codified using symbols such as words, numbers, and
pictures.
Glossary
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.