17
Section 2 – A System for Value Delivery
after its completion, or in the short or long term. This dimension includes achieving strategic
objectives, which can be both financial and nonfinancial, such as meeting sales targets, achieving
return on investment, acquiring new customers, being first to market, implementing technological
or process improvements, complying with new standards and regulations, and meeting social and
environmental sustainability goals. These outcomes reflect the project’s ability to achieve significant
impact and contribute to organizational success.
The second dimension focuses on the efficiency of project management processes, which is
measured by how well the project adheres to constraints such as cost, scope, time, and quality. This
aspect assesses the project’s ability to deliver on time, on budget, and to the required standards,
ensuring that resources are used effectively and stakeholder expectations are met.
Focusing on both dimensions is essential for delivering value and success to the organization. While
the success of project management helps ensure efficient execution, the success of project outcomes
is critical to the targeted business value, regardless of when that value is realized.
For example, in Sydney, Australia, the well-known Sydney Opera House project’s initial budget was
AUS$7 million and the construction was expected to take 4 years. The final expenditure at completion
was AUS$102 million and the construction took 14 years. Today, the monument is a UNESCO World
Heritage site—the most known landmark on the continent—and is visited each year by 10.9 million
people. The management of this project is generally considered a failure but the project result
exceeded the expectations many times over. The successful outcome would have been even stronger
had the same scope been delivered years earlier and at a lower investment cost. Conversely, in 2016
in Montreal, Canada, officials discovered that a newly built overpass for Highway 15 did not align
with the design plans for the upcoming redevelopment of the adjacent Champlain Bridge. As a result,
just a year after a well-managed construction effort, the nearly CA$11 million overpass had to be
demolished.
In conclusion, assessing project success requires a balanced focus on both the success of project
outcomes and the efficiency of project management processes. Focusing on these two aspects
enables companies to not only complete projects effectively, but also to realize their strategic goals,
ensuring sustainable growth and competitive advantage.
2.2 Project Environment
Projects exist and operate within the internal and external environments of an organization, and
have varying degrees of influence on value delivery. Internal and external environments can influence
planning and other project activities. These influences may yield a favorable, unfavorable, or neutral
impact on project characteristics, stakeholders, or project teams. Two major categories of influences
are enterprise environmental factors (EEFs) and organizational process assets (OPAs).
Enterprise environmental factors may originate from the environment outside of the project and
from outside of the enterprise. These EEFs may have an impact at the organizational, portfolio,
program, or project level.
Organizational process assets are internal to the organization. These OPAs may arise from the
organization itself, a portfolio, a program, another project, or a combination of these. Figure 2-4
shows the breakdown of project influences into EEFs and OPAs.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.