35
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
⚫ Example 2. A project that requires rapid innovation and approaches may want to adopt a
faster feedback cycle that an agile framework may provide. Thus, a self-governing approach
may be adopted, where there is no external governance body and the team manages all
value delivery, outputs, quality, etc., through typical agile processes.
⚫
Example 3. A large, multinational project may require compliance with a variety of
regulations across agencies and countries. Thus, project governance should integrate
across domains to ensure that work on a project is appropriately monitored and controlled
to comply with internal and external standards. Some multinational compliance may have
regional variations that should be managed with program- or portfolio-level governance.
2.1.8 Interactions With Other Domains
The Governance performance domain is interrelated with all other project management performance
domains. This interrelationship includes ensuring the alignment of project scope, schedule, and
financial resources to maximize value delivery while balancing trade-offs. As such, Table 2-4 addresses
interactions with the Scope, Schedule, and Finance performance domains, first and foremost.
2.1.9 Check Results
Acknowledging and implementing the appropriate level of project management governance requires
a delicate balance that is tailored to the industry, organizational structure, and specific project
context. Governance approaches should be contemplated by various stakeholders (from executives
to project management office leaders as well as agile practitioners to other project team members)
to ensure success. Table 2-5 shows a set of sample target outcomes, along with a potential check to
confirm whether those outcomes are met.
2.2 Scope Performance Domain
Scope carries a unique and central place in project management, as the value of a project derives
from the outcome delivered in alignment with its scope. The Scope performance domain includes
the processes required to ensure that the project encompasses all of the work required to complete
the project successfully and that only the required work is mapped and no unnecessary work is
performed, thus helping to optimize costs and schedule in order to maximize the project’s value.
In addition to defining and managing the scope, the Scope performance domain also focuses on
project quality. Quality is defined by meeting stakeholder expectations and fulfilling the project and
product requirements. This performance domain helps ensure that deliverables meet the specified
acceptance criteria and that the processes used to produce them are effective and efficient. The
domain emphasizes continuous process improvement, helping to ensure that both scope and quality
are aligned and consistently meet the project’s objectives and standards.
2.2.1 Key Concepts
The following key concepts support effective practices for the Scope performance domain:
⚫
Business case. The business case is a documented economic feasibility study used to
establish validity of the benefits to be delivered by a portfolio component, program, or
project. Projects are initiated through a business case that outlines costs, benefits, and how
value will be created, together with project success criteria.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.