36
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Table 2-4. Governance Interactions With Other Performance Domains
Performance Domain Explanation
Scope Since project scope is where the project’s core value lies, the Governance
and Scope performance domains often comprise the most important domain
interaction. The Scope–Governance approach can have extensive formal con-
trols or be more informal, but such governance decisions are pivotal.
Schedule Because most projects involve some form of investment—be it financial,
strategic, or otherwise—and because the value proposition is often sensitive
to time, the interaction between the Governance and Schedule performance
domains can be critical.
Well-applied governance may increase a project’s speed and effectiveness,
while poorly applied governance can slow it down or result in ineffective
outcomes.
Finance All projects are investments, and the value proposition of any investment is
sensitive to the amount being invested (i.e., cost). Consequently, the interac-
tion between the Governance and Finance performance domains can impact
projects with cost overruns or underruns.
Stakeholders Well-applied project governance can help ensure that all stakeholders are
engaged at the right time in order to achieve project success. Governance
considers the vantage points of all players to help ensure individuals are
aware of what is happening in a project and can give input, provide advice, or
perform work at the appropriate time.
Resources Since the completion of project work is heavily dependent on how well the
right resources are allocated to the right project priorities at the right times,
the interaction between the Governance and Resources performance domains
requires attention in the context of the specific project, as well as how resour-
ces are allocated across the organization.
Risk All projects are investments with inherent risks, requiring effective interaction
between the Governance and Risk performance domains. Risks, encompas-
sing both threats and opportunities, impact project outcomes. Mitigating risks
or seizing opportunities should align with strategic objectives and be managed
under clear governance to optimize risk-adjusted returns.
For example, risk mitigation efforts may incur additional expenditures, but
they can be worthwhile if they enhance the overall project outcomes, such
as improving safety, regulatory compliance, stakeholder confidence, or the
risk-adjusted return on investment.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.