183
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
Multicriteria decision analysis. Multicriteria decision analysis is a technique that utilizes a decision
matrix to provide a systematic analytical approach for establishing criteria, such as risk levels,
uncertainty, and valuation, to evaluate and rank many ideas. Multicriteria decision analysis tools (e.g.,
prioritization matrix or analytic hierarchy process [AHP] software) can be used to identify the key
issues and suitable alternatives to be prioritized as a set of decisions for implementation. Criteria are
prioritized and weighted before being applied to all available alternatives to obtain a mathematical
score for each alternative. The alternatives are then ranked by score.
Multipoint estimating. Multipoint estimating is a method used to estimate cost or duration by
applying an average or weighted average of optimistic, pessimistic, and most likely estimates when
there is uncertainty with the individual activity estimates. The accuracy of single-point duration
estimates may be improved by considering estimation uncertainty and risk. Using multipoint
estimates helps define an approximate range for an activity’s duration:
⚫
Most likely (tM). This estimate is based on the duration of the activity, given the resources
likely to be assigned, their productivity, realistic expectations of availability for the activity,
dependencies on other participants, and interruptions.
⚫
Optimistic (tO). The activity duration based on analysis of the best-case scenario for the
activity.
⚫
Pessimistic (tP). The duration based on analysis of the worst-case scenario for the activity.
Depending on the assumed distribution of values within the range of the estimates, the expected
duration, tE, can be calculated. One commonly used formula is triangular distribution:
tE = (tO + tM + tP) / 3
Triangular distribution is used when there is insufficient historical data or when using judgmental
data. Duration estimates based on three points with an assumed distribution provide an expected
duration and clarify the range of uncertainty around the expected duration.
Negotiation. Negotiation is a discussion aimed at reaching an agreement. Negotiation is used to
achieve support or agreement that supports the work of the project or its outcomes and to resolve
conflicts within the team or with other stakeholders. Negotiation among team members is used to
reach consensus on project needs. Negotiation can build trust and harmony among team members.
Procurement negotiation clarifies the structure, rights, and obligations of the parties and other
terms of the purchases so that mutual agreement can be reached prior to signing a contract. Final
document language reflects all agreements reached. Negotiation concludes with a signed contract
document or other formal agreement that can be executed by both buyer and seller.
The negotiation should be led by a member of the procurement team who has the authority to
sign contracts. The project manager and other members of the project management team may be
present during negotiation to provide assistance as needed.
Networking. Networking is the establishment of connections and relationships with other people
from the same or other organizations for the purpose of exchanging information and developing
contacts. Networks provide project managers and their teams with access to informal organizations
to solve problems, influence actions of their stakeholders, and increase stakeholder support for the
work and outcomes of the project, thus improving performance.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.