265
Glossary
Many of the words defined here have broader, and in some cases, different dictionary definitions. In
some cases, a single glossary term consists of multiple words (e.g., root cause analysis).
Note: Many terms are fully defined in Section 4, Inputs and Outputs, and Section 5, Tools and
Techniques. This glossary is designed to provide definitions for additional terms that are not covered
in those sections.
acceptance criteria. A set of conditions that are met before deliverables are accepted. See also
requirement.
accuracy. Within the quality management system, accuracy is an assessment of correctness.
actual cost (AC). The realized cost incurred for the work performed on an activity during a specific
time period. See also budget at completion (BAC), earned value (EV), estimate at completion (EAC),
estimate to complete (ETC), and planned value (PV).
adaptive approach. A development approach in which the requirements are subject to a high level
of uncertainty and volatility and are likely to change throughout the project.
agile. A term used to describe a mindset of values and principles as set forth in the Manifesto for Agile
Software Development.
ambiguity. A state of being unclear, having difficulty in identifying the cause of events, or having
multiple options from which to choose.
artifact. A document or other item created during a portfolio, program, or project to help manage it
and provide information to the project team, stakeholders, and management.
assumption. A factor in the planning process considered to be true, real, or certain, without proof or
demonstration.
authority. The right to apply project resources, expend funds, make decisions, or give approvals.
baseline. The approved version of a work product that can be changed using formal change control
procedures and is used as the basis for comparison to actual results.
benefit. A gain or asset realized by the organization and other stakeholders as the result of
outcomes delivered.
bid documents. All documents used to solicit information, quotations, or proposals from prospective
sellers.
bidder conference. Meetings with prospective sellers prior to the preparation of a bid or proposal
to ensure all prospective vendors have a clear and common understanding of the procurement.
Also known as contractor conferences, vendor conferences, or pre-bid conferences.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.