52
3.7.2 Principle in Action
To provide an example of the principle of Integrate Sustainability Within All Project Areas, consider a
construction project. Construction projects often require materials derived from natural resources,
which may be sourced externally. If sustainability principles are overlooked, the project team might
choose the least expensive materials, potentially harming the environment and human health. By
adhering to sustainability principles, the project team not only focuses on the project’s value and the
internal rate of return, but also demonstrates a commitment to environmental sustainability and the
responsible use of materials and natural resources while involving local communities. This effort could
involve carefully planning the required materials and selecting sources with the least environmental
impact or seeking materials that mimic natural processes and draw inspiration from nature
(e.g., constructing urban buildings with wood or using recycled concrete instead of natural stone).
Technology projects can enhance sustainability by integrating eco-friendly practices into project
management, emphasizing social responsibility, and maximizing social impact. By adopting
appropriate tools and innovative technologies, project teams can reduce resource consumption and
waste, streamline processes, and improve efficiency. Projects can also focus on creating positive social
impacts such as improving access to education and healthcare through technology. Environmental
sustainability is achieved by selecting sustainable materials, minimizing carbon footprints, and
implementing eco-friendly technologies. This holistic approach helps foster a more sustainable future.
3.7.3 Connected Performance Domains
The Integrate Sustainability Within All Project Areas principle may impact the Finance performance
domain as sustainable practices may require additional funding, but they may also reduce the level of
financial threat for the project (and the funding organization). The project team may consider green
benefits to be included in the project requirements.
The principle of Integrate Sustainability Within All Project Areas can positively impact the Risk
performance domain by enabling proactive identification and mitigation of long-term risks, such
as environmental, regulatory, or societal challenges. Sustainability initiatives can also create
opportunities for innovation by encouraging project teams to develop resource-efficient solutions
and sustainable practices. Embedding societal and environmental values into project management
strengthens the Governance, Scope, and Stakeholders performance domains by fostering
accountability, aligning scope with organizational goals and societal needs, and enhancing stakeholder
trust. This approach benefits the project team during execution and delivers lasting value to the
organization, improving its reputation and resilience once the project or product life cycle is complete.
Integrating sustainability can affect many aspects of a project, including but not limited to the following:
⚫
Governance. The project team’s proactive and collaborative approach with the governance
team develops a positive, transparent communication channel with management, helping
to ensure alignment with the project objectives and outcomes, with the least deviations
and less confusion. This approach includes integrating sustainability goals into governance
practices to ensure long-term environmental and social benefits.
⚫
Scope. Open-channel communication proactively calibrates to a project’s evolving needs
to add elements, adjust quality, or remove elements of the scope or project requirements.
Sustainability considerations should be embedded into the scope to help ensure that
project deliverables meet or exceed the organization’s sustainability goals, as well as
environmental and social standards.
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.