147
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
most reliable when the previous activities are similar in fact and not just appearance, and when the
project team members preparing the estimates have the needed expertise.
Artificial intelligence (AI). AI is the programming of machines with patterns and processes similar to
those observed in—and by—humans and human interactions.
⚫ Machine learning (ML). Machine learning is a part of AI, and its main goal is to develop
software that can learn from past experiences, similar to what humans do. Common fields
include recognizing speech and images; predicting weather, stock market behavior, and
traffic; operating autonomous cars; filtering email spam; and providing a medical diagnosis.
⚫
Natural language processing (NLP). The NLP technique’s goal is to build software that
can process natural language, like humans. In other words, people communicate with
computers in their own natural language. Some NLP examples include chatbots, speech
recognition, text extraction and summarization, and sentiment analysis.
Assumption and constraint analysis. Every project is conceived and developed based on a set
of assumptions and within a series of constraints. These assumptions and constraints are often
already incorporated in the scope baseline and project estimates. Assumption and constraint
analysis explores the validity of assumptions and constraints to determine which pose a risk to the
project. Threats may be identified from the inaccuracy, instability, inconsistency, or incompleteness
Release 3Release 2Release 1
Release Plan
Iteration Plan
Iteration 0 Iteration 1 Iteration 2 Iteration 3 Iteration n
Feature D
(User Story 5)
Feature C
(User Story 4)
Feature B
(User Story 3)
Feature A
(User Story 2)
Feature A
(User Story 1)
5 Hours
8 Hours
4 Hours
12 Hours
Task A
Task B
Task C
Task D
Product vision drives
product roadmap
Product roadmap
drives release plans
Release plan
establishes
the iterations
Iteration plans
schedule feature
development
Tasks (estimated in
hours) created to
deliver user stories
Prioritized features
delivered by user
stories (estimated
in story points)
Figure 5-1. Relationship Among Product Vision, Release Planning, and Iteration Planning
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.