153
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
Possible communication artifacts and methods include but are not limited to the following:
⚫ Notice boards;
⚫ Newsletters, in-house magazines, and e-magazines;
⚫ Letters to staff or volunteers;
⚫ Press releases;
⚫ Annual reports;
⚫ Emails and intranets;
⚫ Web portals and other information repositories (for pull communication);
⚫ Phone conversations;
⚫ Presentations;
⚫ Team briefings or group meetings;
⚫ Focus groups;
⚫ Face-to-face formal or informal meetings among various stakeholders;
⚫ Consultation groups or staff forums; and
⚫ Social computing technology and media.
Communication models. A communication model is a description, analogy, or schematic used to
represent how the communication process will be performed for the project.
Communication models can represent the communication process in its most basic linear form (sender
and receiver), in a more interactive form that encompasses the additional element of feedback (sender,
receiver, and feedback), or in a more complex model that incorporates the human elements of the
sender(s) or receiver(s) and attempts to show the complexity of any communication that involves people.
⚫
Sample basic sender/receiver communication model. This model describes
communication as a process and consists of two parties, defined as the sender and
receiver. This model is concerned with ensuring that the message is delivered rather than
understood. The sequence of steps in a basic communication model is as follows:
◾ Encode. The message is coded into symbols, such as text, sound, or some other
medium, for transmission (sending).
◾ Transmit message. The message is sent via a communication channel. The transmission
of this message may be compromised by various physical factors such as unfamiliar
technology or inadequate infrastructure. Noise and other factors may be present and
contribute to loss of information in transmission and/or reception of the message.
◾ Decode. The data received is translated by the receiver back into a form useful to
the receiver.
⚫
Sample interactive communication model. This model also describes communication as a
process consisting of two parties, the sender and receiver, but recognizes the need to ensure
that the message has been understood. In this model, noise includes any interference or
barriers that might compromise the understanding of the message, such as the distraction
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.