49
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
⚫ Develop Schedule. The process of analyzing sequences, durations, resource requirements,
and schedule constraints to create a schedule model for project execution and monitoring
and controlling.
⚫
Monitor and Control Schedule. The process of monitoring the status of the project to
update the project schedule, and managing changes to the schedule baseline or agreed-
upon schedule.
2.3.2.1 Plan Schedule Management
Plan Schedule Management is the process of establishing policies, procedures, and documentation
for designing, developing, managing, performing, and maintaining the schedule. The key benefit of
this process is that it provides guidance and direction on how the project schedule will be managed
throughout the project (see Figure 2-21).
The specific output of this process is the schedule management plan, including information on
project schedule development, release and iteration length, level of accuracy, units of measurement,
links to organizational procedures, project schedule maintenance, control thresholds, rules of
performance measurement, and reporting formats.
2.3.2.2 Develop Schedule
Develop Schedule is the process of analyzing sequences, durations, resource requirements,
and schedule constraints to create a schedule model for project execution and monitoring
and controlling. Developing an acceptable project schedule is an iterative process. The
schedule model is used to determine the planned start and finish dates for project activities
and milestones based on the best available information. Schedule development may require
the review and revision of duration estimates, resource estimates, and schedule reserves to
establish an approved project schedule that can serve as a baseline to track progress (see
Figure 2-22).
• Project charter
• Project management plan
– Scope management plan
• Development approach
• Enterprise environmental
factors
• Organizational process
assets
• Etc.
• Project management plan
updates
– Schedule management
plan
• Etc.
• Expert judgment
• Data analysis
– Alternative analysis
• Meetings
• Etc.
Plan Schedule Management
Inputs OutputsTools & Techniques
Figure 2-21. Plan Schedule Management Inputs, Tools and Techniques, and Outputs
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.