129
Section 4 – Inputs and Outputs
be reviewed early in the project to ensure that decisions are based on accurate information. The
benefits of this review may include a sharper focus on the project’s value proposition, reductions in
costs, and less frequent schedule overruns that are caused by rework.
The quality management plan may include but is not limited to the following components:
⚫
Quality standards that will be used by the project;
⚫ Quality objectives of the project;
⚫ Quality roles and responsibilities;
⚫ Project deliverables and processes subject to quality reviews;
⚫ Quality control and quality management activities planned for the project; and
⚫ Quality tools and methodologies to be employed, alongside detailed procedures for
handling nonconformance and continuous improvement.
Quality metrics. Quality metrics specifically describe project or product attributes and how the
Manage Quality Assurance process will verify compliance with them. Some examples of quality
metrics include percentage of tasks completed on time, cost performance measured by a cost
performance index (CPI), failure rates, number of defects identified per day, total downtime per
month, errors found per line of code, customer satisfaction scores, and percentage of requirements
covered by the test plan as a measure of test coverage.
Quality reports. A quality report is a project document that includes quality management issues,
recommendations for corrective actions, and a summary of findings from quality control activities.
Table 4-1. Elements of the Project Charter and Project Scope Statement
Project Charter Project Scope Statement
⚫ Project purpose
⚫  Measurable project objectives and related success criteria
⚫ High-level requirements
⚫  High-level project description, boundaries, and key
deliverables
⚫ Overall project risk
⚫  Summary milestone schedule
⚫  Preapproved financial resources
⚫ Key stakeholder list
⚫  Project approval requirements (i.e., what constitutes
success, who decides the project is successful, who
approves the project)
⚫  Project exit criteria (i.e., what are the conditions to be met
in order to close or cancel the project or phase)
⚫  Assigned project manager, responsibility, and authority level
⚫  Name and authority of the sponsor or other person(s)
authorizing the project charter
⚫  Project scope description (progressively
elaborated)
⚫ Project deliverables
⚫ Acceptance criteria
⚫ Project exclusions
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.