27
Section 2 – A System for Value Delivery
2.4.7 Provide Resources
Securing and providing the necessary resources is a crucial activity for project success. Some
individuals, such as portfolio managers and project sponsors, are responsible for securing the
necessary resources, including funding, physical resources, personnel, and authority, to enable
project progress. These individuals champion the project at an organizational level and ensure it
receives the necessary support from senior management.
Individuals in resource-related functions, such as functional and resource managers, are responsible
for allocating the necessary resources to the project team. These roles assign the right personnel,
equipment, and expertise to the project team to meet the project requirements and ensure that
resources are allocated efficiently and according to the needs of the project. These people also take
care of any resource gaps that may occur during the project life cycle, ensuring smooth execution.
Together, these roles help ensure that the project team is equipped with the necessary resources to
achieve the project objectives and overcome any challenges related to resource allocation.
2.5 Project Management Roles
While Section 2.4 describes the functions that drive project delivery, many environments perform
those functions through a variety of individuals and/or teams, with some organizations focusing
on specific role definitions. Each role within a project setup adds specific value, and the project’s
outcomes directly depend on those contributions.
This section details some key project roles, such as the project management team, project
manager, sponsor, customer, product owner, project team, and end user, which all add value to
a project’s execution. However, as each enterprise and project is unique, the functions, roles, and
responsibilities may differ accordingly.
2.5.1 Project Management Team
The project management team may consist solely of a project manager or may include more
individuals who form a team; both structures will be referred to synonymously in this section. The
project management team is essential for guiding the assigned team to achieve goals and deliver
value to the organization and customers while considering flexibility, adaptability, and tailoring. The
critical nature of this role is due to several factors ranging from uncertainty to new ways of working.
A project management team performs various functions such as facilitating and mentoring the
project team and managing the processes to deliver intended outcomes.
Depending on the organization’s policies and processes, it is suggested that the project management
team is involved from project initiation through closing and, in some cases, in post-project benefit
analysis. Moreover, in some organizations, a project management team may be involved in
evaluation and feasibility analysis activities before project initiation and may consult with executives
and business unit leaders on ideas for advancing strategic objectives, improving organizational
performance, and meeting customer needs. In some organizational settings, the project management
team may also be called upon to manage or assist in business analysis, business case development,
and aspects of portfolio management for a project. The project management team’s role and level of
involvement may vary from organization to organization, and hence, the role should be tailored to fit
the organizational structure, like tailoring project processes.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.