179
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
of the outcome, even if the option selected may not have been everyone’s first choice.
Generally, inclusion increases commitment to the decision. The downside of group
decision-making is the time required and the interruption to the team’s work that can
occur when members are consulted about a decision.
◾ Project team decision-making often follows a diverge /converge pattern. This pattern
means that stakeholders are first engaged to generate a broad set of solution
alternatives or approaches. This work is often done individually to avoid the effect
of senior or charismatic stakeholders unduly influencing other stakeholders. Then,
after a broad spectrum of decision alternatives has been generated, the project team
converges on a preferred solution.
◾ The  goal is to make decisions quickly while engaging the diverse knowledge of a group in
an inclusive and respectful manner. Some decisions may be made in a different direction
than some people prefer, but everyone has an opportunity to explain their position. In
the end, the deciding authority, whether an individual or a group, makes a decision based
on the presented analysis and with consideration for stakeholder expectations.
◾ Careful selection of which decisions should go for gro up discussion and using voting
can limit the interruptions and task switching experienced by the project team. Many
approaches such as Roman voting, wideband Delphi estimating, and fist of five voting
use the diverge/converge pattern. These approaches aim to engage individual input
while voting at the same moment, which minimizes groupthink.
◾ For those decisions that are beyond the authority of the project team to decide, the
project team can investigate alternatives, consider impacts of each alternative, and
escalate the decision to someone with the proper authority. This process aligns with the
philosophy of “do not bring me problems, bring me solutions” while remaining aligned
with organizational governance regarding decision-making authority.
⚫
Conflict management. Addressing conflict before it escalates beyond useful debate leads
to better outcomes. The following approaches can help:
◾ Keep communication open and respectful. Because conflict can cause anxiety, it is
important to keep a safe environment to explore the source of the conflict. Without a
safe environment, people will stop communicating. Make sure words, tone of voice, and
body language remain nonthreatening.
◾ Focus on the issues, not the people. Conflict is based on people perceiving situations
differently. Conflicts should not be personal. The focus is on resolving the situation, not
casting blame.
◾ Focus on the present and future, not the past. Stay focused on the current situation,
not past situations. If something similar happened previously, bringing up the past will
not resolve the current situation. In fact, it can further intensify the current situation.
Search for alternatives together. Damage incurred from conflict can be repaired by
looking for resolutions and alternatives together. This collaboration can also create more
constructive relationships. This effort to resolve the problem moves the conflict into a
problem-solving space where people can work together to generate creative alternatives
(for more information, see conflict management).
Leads and lags. A lead is the amount of time whereby a successor activity can be advanced with
respect to a predecessor activity. For example, on a project to construct a new office building, the
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.