160
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
critical path analysis, and both call for a resource-loaded and resource-leveled critical path (RLCP).
Indeed, when identifying the longest path or chain of tasks in a project schedule, “the RLCP” is
synonymous with “the critical chain.”
The only meaningful difference in scheduling logic between CCPM and CPM is that CCPM also
calculates the percentage of the project buffer remaining, and then compares it with the percentage
of the critical chain remaining, giving all project participants a “thumb on the pulse” signal of project
schedule performance. This signal is called the “buffer protection index (BPI),” and differs from the
schedule performance index (SPI) from earned value management (EVM) in that BPI is designed to
protect the project due date, whereas SPI is designed to gauge how far from the schedule baseline
the project may be. Also, a big benefit of BPI is its use in prioritizing day-to-day tasks according to
which ones will help protect the due dates of projects most at risk of missing them. (Note that, in
addition to the project-level set of techniques briefly described above, CCPM also has portfolio-level
techniques.)
Critical path drag. Critical path drag is the amount of time that an activity on the critical path is
adding to the project duration. Alternatively, it is the maximum amount of time that one can shorten
the activity before it is no longer on the critical path or before its duration becomes zero.
Critical path drag cost. Critical path drag cost is the amount by which a project’s expected return
on investment (ROI) is reduced due to the critical path drag of a specific critical path activity. In other
words, it is the true economic cost of a specific critical path activity, comprised of its resource cost
plus the cost of delay (or foregone acceleration premium).
Critical path method (CPM). Critical path method is a method used to estimate the minimum
project duration and determine the amount of scheduling flexibility (float) on the logical network
paths within the schedule model. The CPM identifies the critical path, which is the sequence of
activities that determines the shortest possible duration to complete the project. This method
involves schedule network analysis by calculating the early start (ES), early finish (EF), late start (LS),
and late finish (LF) dates for each activity, without regard to resource limitations, by performing a
forward and backward pass through the schedule network.
⚫
The forward pass begins at the project start and calculates the earliest possible start and
finish dates for each activity. For example: If Activity A has an early start (ES) of Day 1 and
a duration of 3 days, its early finish (EF) is Day 3 (calculated as EF = ES + Duration – 1). This
means the activity would start on Day 1 and complete by the end of Day 3.
⚫
The backward pass begins at the project end and determines the latest allowable start and
finish dates without delaying the project. For example: If an activity must finish no later than
Day 10 (LF = 10), and it has a duration of 4 days, its late start (LS) would be Day 7 (calculated
as LS = LF – Duration + 1). This means the latest it can start without delaying the project is
Day 7.
The difference between late and early dates yields the total float, which indicates how much an
activity can be delayed without affecting the project’s finish date. Activities with zero total float form
the critical path. Figure 5-4 illustrates a sample network. In this example, the longest path includes
Activities A, C, and D. Thus, the sequence A–C–D is identified as the critical path.
The resulting early and late start and finish dates do not represent the actual project schedule, but
rather define time windows within which each activity may be executed, based on the model inputs
such as durations, dependencies, leads, lags, and constraints.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.