63
Section 4 – Project Life Cycles
Figure 4-6. Life Cycle With an Adaptive Development Approach
Life Cycle Using Adaptive Development Approach
Iteration 1 Iteration 2 Iteration 3
Feedback
Backlog
Prioritization
Feedback
Backlog
Prioritization
Deﬁne Project
and
Product Visions
4.2.2 Adaptive Approaches
Also referred to as change-driven or agile approaches, adaptive approaches are useful when a
project’s requirements and technical solution are subject to a high level of uncertainty and volatility
and are likely to change significantly throughout the project. A clear vision is established at the
start of the project, and the initial known requirements are progressively elaborated, changed, or
replaced in accordance with stakeholder feedback, the environment, or unexpected events. Adaptive
approaches can be both iterative and incremental. The iterative approach focuses on refining and
improving the project through repeated cycles (iterations). The incremental approach delivers the
final product in small, usable segments (increments), where the increments each provide value and
build on one another until the complete product is delivered.
While agility is a wide mindset that is broader than a development framework, agile approaches
can be considered adaptive. Some agile methods entail iterations that are generally 1 to 4 weeks
in duration, with a demonstration of the accomplishments at the end of each iteration. The entire
project team is heavily involved in the planning at various levels. In the iteration, the team members
determine the scope they can achieve based on the prioritized requirements in the form of the
product backlog, estimate the amount of work, and work collaboratively to develop the scope during
the iteration (see Figure 4-6).
Several adaptive methodologies use flow-based scheduling. Flow-based scheduling is a project
management approach that focuses on optimizing the flow of work through a system. One goal is to
maximize the flow of deliverables based on resource capacity, materials, and other inputs. A related goal
is to minimize time and resource waste and maximize the efficiency of processes and the throughput of
deliverables. Projects that use these practices and techniques often adopt them from flow-maximizing
approaches such as the Kanban method (a visual workflow management method to limit work in
process [WIP] based on lean principles and focusing on continuous delivery without overburdening
the team) and the theory of constraints (a management philosophy that focuses on identifying and
addressing the most significant limiting factor [constraint] that stands in the way of achieving a goal).
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.