212
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Virtual collaboration tools. Virtual collaboration tools are software applications and platforms
designed to facilitate communication, coordination, and collaboration among project team members
who may be geographically dispersed.
⚫ Example: Cloud-based collaboration platforms. Cloud-based collaboration platforms or
tools allow multiple project team members and other stakeholders to access, review, and
edit various documents and information in real time as they are stored in the cloud.
Virtual reality (VR). Virtual reality is a computer modeling and simulation technique that allows
project team members or other stakeholders to interact within an artificial, three-dimensional
environment by using headsets, glasses, or other means of technology.
Virtual teams. Virtual teams are groups of people with a shared goal who fulfill their roles with
little or no time spent meeting face to face. The use of virtual teams creates new possibilities when
acquiring project team members. The availability of communication technologies such as email, audio
conferencing, social media, web-based meetings, and videoconferencing has made virtual teams
more feasible. The virtual team model makes it possible to do the following:
⚫
Form teams of people from the same organization who live in widespread geographic areas;
⚫ Add special expertise to a project team even though the expert is not in the same
geographic area;
⚫ Incorporate employees who work from home offices;
⚫ Form teams of people who work different shifts, hours, or days;
⚫ Include people with mobility limitations or disabilities;
⚫ Move forward with projects that would have been held or canceled due to travel expenses;
and
⚫ Save the expense of offices and the physical equipment needed for employees.
The use of virtual teams can bring benefits such as the use of more skilled resources, reduced costs,
less travel and relocation expenses, and the proximity of team members to suppliers, customers,
or other key stakeholders. Virtual teams can use technology to create an online team environment
where the team can store files, use conversation threads to discuss issues, and keep a team calendar.
Communication planning becomes increasingly important in a virtual team environment. Additional
time may be needed to set clear expectations, facilitate communications, develop protocols for
resolving conflicts, include people in decision-making, understand cultural differences, and share
credit in successes.
Visual controls. In lean environments, information radiators are known as visual controls. Visual
controls illustrate processes to easily compare actual against expected performance. Visual controls
show a process using visual cues. Visual controls can be present for all levels of information from
business value delivered to tasks that have started. They should be highly visible for anyone to see.
Some examples include the following:
⚫
Task boards. A task board is a visual representation of the planned work that allows
everyone to see the status of the tasks. A task board can show work that is ready to be started
(to do), work in progress, and work that is completed (see Figure 5-25). A task board allows
anyone to see, at a glance, the status of a particular task or the number of tasks in each stage
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.