57
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
2.3.3.6 Scheduling Approaches and Methods
As different types of industries and projects require different approaches and methods to scheduling,
it is increasingly important to have a contextual framework for effective adoption and tailoring of
development practices to respond to the changing demands of the environment. Some approaches
for scheduling include the critical path method, critical chain method, location-based scheduling,
Last Planner System
®, Gantt charts, and Kanban.
⚫ Location-based scheduling (LBS). Location-based scheduling allocates quantities to
the locations defined in the LBS and takes into consideration the resourcing required to
complete this work, including production rates, crew sizing, logic between tasks, and any
requirements for splitting or buffering work.
⚫
Lean scheduling.  Lean scheduling is based on the principles of lean project delivery (on-
demand scheduling) and is designed to minimize waste and maximize value. To achieve
this goal, deliverables are not assigned to the team. Lean scheduling principles point to
the importance of limiting queues by pulling work when there is capacity to place the
work into the process. The project team members collaborate in pull-planning sessions
where the essential activities, durations, and handoffs between trades to complete
milestones are defined. The main steps are master scheduling, phase scheduling, and
look-ahead planning.
⚫
Schedule and deliverable alignment. Project deliverables and schedules have varying
levels of detail. This variation often creates confusion regarding what will be done and
when. One approach to increase clarity is to ensure that a given element of the WBS is
described by a schedule that has a commensurate level of detail.
2.3.4 Interactions With Other Domains
The Schedule performance domain closely interacts with the Governance, Scope, Finance,
Stakeholders, Resources, and Risk performance domains, emphasizing the interdependent nature
of project management elements. At the beginning of the project, the expected outcomes are
identified, and a high-level schedule is developed to achieve these results. Depending on the selected
development approach and life cycle, intensive scheduling may be conducted up front, which is then
adjusted or adapted to the actual environment.
Other life cycles encourage just enough scheduling at various points throughout the project, with the
expectation that plans will evolve. The duration of the project depends on its scope, cost, resources,
and quality. Each of these factors can cause the schedule to become longer or shorter.
The Scope, Schedule, and Finance performance domains are closely linked to one another and
changes in any one of them will likely impact the others. While the project outcome is directly
dependent on these performance domains, they also are in parallel to, and indirectly connected with,
the Stakeholders, Resources, and Risk performance domains in order to maintain a balance and
ensure that all of the domains function under the Governance performance domain.
2.3.5 Check Results
Activities related to the Schedule performance domain should be considered successful only if they
contribute to specific outcomes. Table 2-7 shows a set of sample target outcomes, along with a
potential check to confirm whether those outcomes are met.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.