54
3.8.1 Project Impact
Project stakeholders are influenced by the cultures of the organizations involved in the project and by
the environment in which they operate. Within these influences, project teams often establish their
own cultural norms. Project teams have the flexibility to customize their organizational frameworks
to optimally achieve the intended project goal within such new cultures.
The principle of Build an Empowered Culture enables successful project execution in the following
areas:
⚫
Diversity. A diverse project team can enrich the project environment to create a more
inclusive space by bringing together different perspectives. In a global economy, the project
team may comprise internal organizational staff, contracted contributors, volunteers, or
external third parties. Some project team members may also be brought in for a short term
to work on a specific deliverable. Incorporating these key members into a project team may
present challenges. However, cultivating a team environment that honors diversity and
seeks to harness it constructively fosters an atmosphere where conflicts can be managed
efficiently.
⚫
Process definition. Project teams should define processes that enable the completion of
tasks and work assignments. Additionally, project teams should engage other stakeholders
to understand, consider, communicate, and respond to their interests, needs, and opinions.
⚫
Interpersonal skills. Project team members and stakeholders should develop a set of
interpersonal skills such as initiative, integrity, honesty, collaboration, respect, empathy,
and confidence. These competencies and perspectives assist teams in adjusting to the tasks
and one another. Coupled with an active involvement of stakeholders from inception to
completion, these competencies pave the way for success.
⚫
Knowledge of organizational structures. Being aware of the various configurations and
relationships among the components of project tasks and organizational procedures is
important for teams to consider when building an empowered culture. Project teams tailor
and employ frameworks that facilitate the synchronization of personal contributions within
project tasks.
⚫
Team agreements. Team agreements represent a set of behavioral parameters and
working norms that are established by the project team and upheld through individual and
team commitments. These agreements should be created at the beginning of a project to
determine the essential norms and practices that facilitate ongoing collaborative success.
3.8.2 Principle in Action
To provide an example of the principle of Build an Empowered Culture, consider a project team that
is facing challenges with stakeholder engagement due to the territorial complexities and diversity of
the people involved in the project. Building an empowered culture enables stakeholders to be seen
and included from the project’s inception. This involvement provides stakeholders with guidelines to
add value and actively participate, contributing to the project’s success.
Remote and virtual teams face heightened challenges due to varying work styles, time zones, and
the absence of in-person interaction, which can hinder collaboration and relationship building.
An empowered culture gives all team members and stakeholders the opportunity to build and
collaborate in effective and constructive ways, solving differences and managing conflicts proactively.
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.