16
Operations play a critical role in supporting and influencing portfolios, programs, and projects, as
well as essential business functions such as payroll and supply chain management. At the same
time, portfolios, programs, projects, and products interact dynamically, shaping and influencing one
another to drive strategic outcomes.
As shown in Figure 2-2, a system for value delivery is part of an organization’s internal environment
that is subject to policies, procedures, methodologies, frameworks, governance structures, and so
forth. That internal environment exists within the larger external environment, which includes the
economy, competitive environment, legislative constraints, etc. Section 2.2 provides more detail on
internal and external environments.
The components in a value delivery system create deliverables used to produce outcomes. An
outcome is the end result or consequence of a process or project. Focusing on outcomes, possible
alternatives, and strategic decisions emphasizes the long-term performance of the project. The
outcomes create benefits, which are positive effects realized by the organization, and may also create
disbenefits, which are negative consequences or losses. Benefits, in turn, create value, which is
something of worth, importance, or usefulness. Because all projects are investments, their expected
value—whether financial or nonfinancial—should meet or exceed target thresholds in order to justify
the investment in the first place.
A value delivery system works most effectively when information and feedback are shared consistently
among all components, keeping the system aligned with strategy and attuned to the environment.
Figure 2-3 demonstrates an example of how information flows effectively throughout the system.
2.1.2 Assessing Project Success
The assessment of project success requires the evaluation of two important dimensions: the success
of project outcomes and the success of project management processes. The first dimension focuses
on the effectiveness of the project in realizing the intended value. The timing of this value realization
depends on the nature of the product and the project—it can occur during the project, immediately
Figure 2-3. Example Information Flow
Portfolio performance
information
Performance information
and progress
Outcomes, beneﬁts, value performance analysis
Strategy
Desired outcomes,
beneﬁts, and value
Information for updates,
ﬁxes, and adjustments
Deliverables with support
and maintenance information
Senior
Leadership Portfolios Programs
and Projects
Operations
and Products
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.