42
3.4.2 Principle in Action
To provide an example of the Focus on Value principle in action, consider a company that is
undertaking a project to roll out a new internal technology system. A conventional approach might
focus on choosing a product with the most features for the price and then customizing it to meet all
of the requested stakeholder requirements. In contrast, a value-focused approach aligns the project
with business outcomes like maximizing usage and adoption. A deeper look might reveal a fast-paced
organizational culture that values simplicity of experience over complexity of features. By reducing
features and customizations, the more simplified solution might better match the culture, and thus
increase overall usage and satisfaction.
3.4.3 Connected Performance Domains
The Focus on Value principle interacts with and elevates the practice of all project management
performance domains. By applying this principle, each domain can be managed more effectively,
ensuring that the project maximizes value for the stakeholders. The relevant connections
between this principle and specific project management performance domains include the
following:
⚫
Governance. A value-focused approach establishes frameworks and processes that help
ensure decisions are made in alignment with the project’s value objectives. Governance is
“right-sized” to focus on value delivery, not bureaucracy.
⚫
Scope. A value-focused approach can help to define and control the project scope to
ensure that all work contributes to the intended value. This approach involves continuous
scope management to prevent scope creep and gold plating and to ensure that the project
remains focused on delivering its key outcomes.
⚫
Schedule. A focus on value helps to ensure that time is managed effectively to help the
project to deliver the expected value by—or earlier than—the target date. This effort
includes planning and controlling the project schedule to avoid delays that could diminish
the project’s value.
⚫
Finance. The Focus on Value principle helps ensure that financial resources are allocated
efficiently to maximize the project’s value. This effort involves continuous assessment of
financial performance against the business case to ensure that the project remains viable
and delivers the expected financial benefits.
⚫
Stakeholders. A value mindset can help when engaging with stakeholders to understand
their needs and expectations, ensuring that the project delivers value from their
perspective. Effective stakeholder engagement helps align the project’s outputs with the
desired outcomes and enhances stakeholder satisfaction.
⚫
Resources.  Keeping a project’s value proposition at the center of attention can help
inform decisions around physical assets and project team talent. For example, financial
constraints may not allow the hiring of specialized team members needed to achieve
project goals. In that case, focusing on value can spark alternative solutions such as
cross-training existing team members.
⚫
Risk. Focusing on value helps ensure that the approach taken to address uncertainty in the
project, whether responding to known or emergent threats or responding to opportunities,
is pragmatic in the sense of effectiveness, efficiency, and transparency.
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.