206
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Theory of constraints (TOC). Theory of constraints is a body of knowledge focused on improving the
system-level performance of an organization, end-to-end process, project portfolio, or project. The
TOC application to a project or project portfolio is critical chain project management (CCPM). See also
critical chain project management and continuous improvement.
To-complete performance index (TCPI). The to-complete performance index (TCPI) is a measure
of the cost performance that should be achieved with the remaining resources in order to meet
a specified management goal, expressed as the ratio of the cost to finish the outstanding work to
the remaining budget. The TCPI is the calculated cost performance index that is achieved on the
remaining work to meet a specified management goal such as the budget at completion (BAC) or
estimate at completion (EAC). If it becomes obvious that the BAC is no longer viable, the project
manager should consider the forecasted EAC. Once approved, the EAC may replace the BAC in the
TCPI calculation. The equation for TCPI is: (BAC − EV) / (BAC − AC) where: BAC = budget at completion,
EV = earned value, and AC = actual cost.
The TCPI is conceptually displayed in Figure 5-24. The equation for the TCPI is shown in the lower-
left corner as the work remaining (defined as the BAC minus the EV) divided by the funds remaining
(which can be either the BAC minus the AC, or the EAC minus the AC).
If the cumulative CPI falls below the baseline (as shown in Figure 5-24), all future work of the project
should be performed immediately in the range of the TCPI (BAC) (as reflected in the top line of
Figure 5-24) to stay within the authorized BAC. Whether this level of performance is achievable is
a judgment call based on several considerations, including risk, time remaining in the project, and
technical performance. Such a level of performance is displayed as the TCPI (EAC) line. The equation
for the TCPI is based on the EAC: (BAC − EV) / (EAC − AC). The EVM formulas are provided in Table 5-1.
Figure 5-24. To-Complete Performance Index (TCPI)
Status Date
1.00
>1
<1
TCPI
(BAC)
TCPI
(EAC)
Baseline Plan
Cumulative
CPI
Formula:
= TCPIWork Remaining (BAC − EV)
Funds Remaining (BAC − AC) or (EAC − AC)
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.