19
Section 2 – A System for Value Delivery
⚫ Information technology systems. Examples include task management tools, cost
management tools, scheduling software tools, configuration management systems, web
interfaces to other online automated systems, and work authorization systems.
⚫ Resource availability. Examples include contracting and purchasing constraints, staffing
levels or team capacity, and collaboration agreements.
⚫ Employee capability. Examples include existing human resources expertise, skills,
competencies, and specialized knowledge.
⚫
Financial capability of the organization. Examples include external funding options and
additional financial resources that may be required for projects.
2.2.1.2 Enterprise Environmental Factors External to the Organization
The following are examples of EEFs that are external to the organization:
⚫ Marketplace conditions. Examples include competitors, customer behavior, market share,
brand recognition, and trademarks.
⚫ Social and cultural influences and issues. Examples include political climate, codes of
conduct, ethics, and perceptions.
⚫ Legal restrictions. Examples include country or local laws and regulations related to
security, data protection, business conduct, employment, and procurement.
⚫ Academic research. Examples include industry studies, publications, benchmarking
results, empirical data that can inform decision-making, and emerging trends within the
management field that could be insightful for project management.
⚫
Government or industry standards.  Examples include regulatory agency regulations
and standards related to products, production, environment, safety, quality, and
workmanship.
⚫
Financial considerations. Examples include currency exchange rates, interest rates,
inflation rates, tariffs, taxes, and geographic location.
⚫ Physical environmental elements. Examples include working conditions, weather, and
constraints such as geopolitical issues.
⚫ Emerging technologies and innovations. Examples include advancements in artificial
intelligence, automation, blockchain, and the Internet of Things (IoT).
⚫ Public health and safety regulations. Examples include government-imposed health
protocols, travel restrictions, quarantine measures, social distancing guidelines, and public
safety mandates.
2.2.2 Organizational Process Assets
Organizational process assets, depending on the industry, organization, and working model, may
include the plans, processes, documents, templates, and knowledge repositories specific to and used
by the performing organization. These assets influence the management of the project.
Organizational process assets may include any artifact, practice, or knowledge from any or all
of the performing organizations involved in the project, which can be used to execute or govern
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.