130
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
The quality report may include recommendations for any process, project, and product
improvements.
Quality test and evaluation documents. Quality test and evaluation documents are essential
components in project management that are designed to ensure a product or service meets the
specified quality objectives. These documents outline the activities and processes used to assess
whether the deliverables align with the quality standards set in the quality management plan. The
quality test and evaluation documents are crucial for identifying errors, defects, or nonconformance
issues early in the project life cycle, thereby reducing the cost and effort required to address the
issues later.
Regulations. See organizational process assets (OPAs).
Requirements documentation. Requirements documentation is a description of how individual
requirements should meet the business needs of the project. Requirements may start out at a
high level and become progressively more detailed as more information about the requirements
becomes known. Before being baselined, requirements should be unambiguous (measurable and
testable), traceable, complete, consistent, and acceptable to key stakeholders. The format of the
requirements documentation may range from a simple document listing all of the requirements
categorized by stakeholder and priority, to more elaborate forms containing an executive summary,
detailed descriptions, and attachments. The documentation may also include static or dynamic
graphic information.
Many organizations categorize requirements into different types such as business and technical.
Business requirements refer to stakeholder needs and technical requirements determine how
those needs will be implemented. Requirements can be grouped into classifications allowing for
further refinement and detail as the requirements are elaborated. These classifications may include
the following:
⚫
Business requirements. These requirements outline the strategic objectives and high-level
needs of the organization, ensuring alignment with broader organizational goals.
⚫ Stakeholder requirements. These requirements describe the needs of a stakeholder or
stakeholder group.
⚫
Solution requirements. These requirements describe the features, functions, and
characteristics of the product, service, or result that will meet the business and stakeholder
needs. Solution requirements are further grouped into functional and nonfunctional
requirements:
◾ Functional requirements. Functional requirements describe the behaviors of the
product. Examples include actions, processes, data, and interactions that the product
should execute.
◾ Nonfunctional requirements. Nonfunctional requirements complement functional
requirements by specifying performance, security, and operational criteria essential
for product effectiveness and user satisfaction. Examples include reliability, security,
performance, safety, level of service, supportability, retention/purge, etc.
⚫
Transition and readiness requirements. These requirements describe temporary
capabilities, such as data conversion and training requirements, needed to transition from
the current, as-is state to the desired future state.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.