248
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
◾ Criteria for moving from phase to phase;
◾ Monitoring and evaluation plan for tracking progress; and
◾ Process for knowledge transfer for use in subsequent phases.
X4.5 Bid Process and Documents
The bid process includes developing and publicizing bid documents, bidder conferences, and
selecting a bidder. Bid documents may include the following:
⚫ Request for information (RFI). An RFI is used to gather more information from the market
prior to sending out bid documents to a set of selected vendors.
⚫ Request for proposal (RFP). An RFP is used for projects with a complex or complicated
scope where the buyer is looking for the vendor to provide a solution.
⚫
Request for quote (RFQ). An RFQ is used when price is the main deciding factor and the
proposed solution is readily available.
These three types of documents cover the majority of bidding needs. There are other bid documents;
however, they tend to be industry specific.
Once the bid documents are distributed, the buyer generally has a bidder conference to respond to
bidder questions and provide clarifying information. The bidders then develop their responses and
deliver them to the buyer by the date specified in the bid documents.
Choosing the best vendor, sometimes known as source selection, is often based on a number of
criteria, such as experience, references, price, and timely delivery. These variables may be weighted
to reflect the relative importance of each. The buyer evaluates vendor bids against the criteria
to select an appropriate vendor(s). The buyer and vendor then negotiate terms and conditions.
Almost everything can be negotiated, from cost to delivery and payment dates, to location of work,
ownership of intellectual property, and so forth. Figure X4-1 illustrates an example of how these steps
might flow together.
Prepare
SOW
Prepare high-
level estimates
Prepare and
submit proposals
Bidder
conference
Advertise the
opportunity
Prepare
bid documents
Qualiﬁed
sellersRFI
RFP
RFQ
Evaluation and
source selection
Negotiate terms
and conditions Contracting
PROPOSAL
QUOTE
Figure X4-1. Example Procurement Process Flow
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.