136
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
there may be several RBS frameworks for different types of projects, or the project may
develop a tailored RBS. Where an RBS is not used, an organization may use a custom
risk categorization framework, which may take the form of a simple list of categories or a
structure based on project objectives.
⚫
Stakeholder risk appetite. The risk appetites of key stakeholders on the project are
recorded in the risk management plan, as they inform the details of the Plan Risk
Management process. Stakeholder risk appetite should be expressed as measurable
risk thresholds around each project objective. These thresholds should determine the
acceptable level of overall project risk exposure, and they are also used to inform the
definitions of probability and impacts to be used when assessing and prioritizing individual
project risks.
⚫
Definitions of risk probability and impacts. Definitions of risk probability and impact
levels are specific to the project context and reflect the risk appetite and thresholds of
the organization and key stakeholders. The project may generate specific definitions of
probability and impact levels, or it may start with general definitions provided by the
organization. The number of levels reflects the degree of detail required for the risk
process, with more levels used for a more detailed risk approach (typically five levels),
and fewer for a simple process (usually three levels). Table 4-2 provides an example of
definitions of probability and impacts against three project objectives. These scales can
be used to evaluate both threats and opportunities by interpreting the impact definitions
as negative for threats (delay, additional cost, and performance shortfall) and positive for
opportunities (reduced time or cost and performance enhancement). While most risks can
be mapped into the probability and impact scales, it is important to be mindful that there
may be risks such as ethical risks or those that may impact the organization’s reputation,
team morale, or other intangible factors.
Table 4-2. Example of Definitions for Probability and Impacts
Scale Probability
+/− Impact on Project Objectives
Time Cost Quality
Very high >70% >6 months >US$5M Very significant impact on overall
functionality
High 51%–70% 3–6 months US$1M–$5M Significant impact on overall
functionality
Medium 31%–50% 1–3 months US$501K–$1M Some impact on key functional areas
Low 11%–30% 1–4 weeks US$100K–$500K Minor impact on overall functionality
Very low 1%–10% 1 week <US$100K Minor impact on secondary functions
Insignificant <1% No change No change No change in functionality
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.