92
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
2.6.5 Check Results
Activities related to the Resources performance domain should be considered successful only if they
contribute to specific outcomes. Table 2-10 shows a set of sample target outcomes, along with a
potential check to confirm whether those outcomes are met.
2.7 Risk Performance Domain
The Risk performance domain represents a comprehensive approach to creating project resilience
by managing risk through risk management practices. The Risk performance domain emphasizes
the project team’s ability to anticipate, prepare for, respond to, and adapt to various risks and
disruptions, helping ensure continuity and success under varying uncertainties. The Risk performance
domain advocates for a proactive stance in planning for identified project risks and disruptions,
coupled with adaptive and flexible response mechanisms in case they occur.
2.7.1 Key Concepts
The following key concepts support the effective practices for the Risk performance domain:
⚫
Risk. A risk is an uncertain event or condition that, if it occurs, has a positive or negative
effect on one or more portfolio, program, or project objectives. Identified risks may or may
Table 2-10. Check Outcomes—Resources Performance Domain
Outcome Check
There is shared ownership of the
project.
All project team members know the vision and objectives. The proj-
ect team owns the deliverables and outcomes of the project.
A high-performing team is in place. The project team trusts one another and collaborates. The project
team adapts to changing situations and is resilient in the face of
challenges. Team members feel empowered, and the project man-
ager empowers and recognizes team members while successfully
delivering project results.
There is effective resource utilization
on the project.
The actual resource usage versus planned resource usage is effec-
tively managed.
There is an acceptable
resource-downtime percentage.
The total downtime versus total planned resource time is at an
acceptable level.
The team is productive. The units produced versus the hours worked, or the cost of work
performed versus the scheduled time, is at an acceptable level and
key performance indicators (KPIs) are regularly reviewed to check
team performance.
There is efficient management of
physical and/or virtual resources.
The number of materials used, scrap discarded, and amount of
rework indicate that resources are being used efficiently.
Resource procurement management
is conducted.
The procurement processes, efficiency checks, order, manufacture,
and delivery tracking are all successfully managed.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.