5
Section 1 – Introduction
⚫ Benefit. A gain or asset realized by the organization and other stakeholders as the result of
outcomes delivered.
⚫ Outcome. An end result or consequence of a process or project. Outcomes encompass
the long-term effects, changes, or value generated by the project’s deliverables, which can
be either positive or negative. Positive outcomes, often termed “benefits,” may include
enhancements in performance, efficiency, or customer satisfaction. Conversely, negative
outcomes, known as “disbenefits,” may involve unintended adverse effects or costs.
Evaluating outcomes is essential to determine how effectively a project has achieved its
intended objectives and to understand its overall impact.
⚫
Output. A product, result, or service generated by a process. May be an input to a
successor process.
⚫
Portfolio. A collection of programs, projects, and operations managed as a group
to maximize overall value delivery and achieve strategic objectives, meet mandatory
obligations, or generate income streams. Related activities may include subsidiary
portfolios (subportfolios) and operations.
⚫
Product. An artifact that is produced, is quantifiable, and can be either an end item in itself
or a component item. “Product” is an overarching term that includes tangible (physical
goods) and intangible (digital goods and services) items.
⚫
Program. A group of related projects and program activities managed in a coordinated
manner to obtain benefits not available from managing them individually. These
interrelated activities can serve program components to enable the program to deliver the
highest value and may include subsidiary programs.
⚫
Project. A temporary initiative in a unique context undertaken to create value. The
temporary nature of a project indicates a beginning and an end to the project work or a
phase of the project work. A project’s unique context can be driven by its distinct goals,
environmental conditions, approaches, stakeholders, or other dimensions. Projects can be
stand-alone efforts or part of a portfolio or program.
⚫
Project management. The application of knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques to project
activities to meet or exceed the intended value. Meeting or exceeding value in project
management does not mean to endorse or accept gold plating or scope creep, but to
emphasize a value-driven decision-making process, helping to ensure that the final project
outcome satisfies the stakeholders’ needs.
⚫
Project management office (PMO). Organizational entities, typically established
as departments or teams, primarily tasked with centralizing activities related to the
management of portfolios, programs, and/or projects. The nature of these activities can
vary according to the unique needs of each organization.
⚫
Project management team. The members of the project team who are directly involved in
project management activities.
⚫
Project manager. The person assigned by the performing organization to lead the team
that is responsible for achieving the project objectives. Project managers perform a variety
of functions such as facilitating the project team’s work to achieve the intended outcomes
and managing the processes to bring about those outcomes in order to enable value
delivery. Additional functions are identified in Section 2.4.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.