175
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
as leadership activities. Management activities focus on the means of meeting project objectives, such
as having effective processes, planning, coordinating, measuring, and monitoring work, among others.
Leadership activities focus on people. Leadership includes influencing, motivating, listening, enabling,
and other activities having to do with the project team. Both are important in delivering the intended
outcomes. See also centralized management and leadership and distributed management and leadership.
Interviews. Interviews are a formal or informal approach to elicit information from stakeholders
by talking to them directly. Interviews are typically performed by asking prepared and spontaneous
questions and recording responses. Interviews are often conducted on an individual basis
between an interviewer and an interviewee but may involve multiple interviewers and/or multiple
interviewees. Interviewing experienced project participants, sponsors, executives, and subject
matter experts can aid in identifying and defining the features and functions of the desired product
deliverables. Interviews are also useful for obtaining confidential information.
Iteration burndown chart. An iteration burndown tracks the work that remains to be completed
in the iteration backlog. An iteration burndown chart is used to analyze the variance with respect to
an ideal burndown based on the work committed from iteration planning. A forecast trend line can
be used to predict the likely variance at iteration completion and take appropriate actions during the
course of the iteration. A diagonal line representing the ideal burndown and daily actual remaining
work is then plotted. A trend line is then calculated to forecast completion based on the remaining
work. Figure 5-10 is an example of an iteration burndown chart.
Knowledge management. Knowledge management tools and techniques connect people so they
can work together to create new knowledge, share tacit knowledge, and integrate the knowledge of
diverse team members. The tools and techniques appropriate in a project depend on the nature of
the project, especially the degree of innovation involved, project complexity, and the level of diversity
(including diversity of disciplines) among team members.
Iteration Days
Remaining Work
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
1 2345678 91 01 11 2
Actual
Remaining
Work
Ideal
Remaining
Work
Forecast
Remaining
Work
Iteration Burndown Chart
Figure 5-10. Iteration Burndown Chart
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.