155
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
This communication model and its enhancements can assist in developing communication strategies
and plans for person-to-person or even small-group-to-small-group communications. The model is
not useful for other communications artifacts such as emails, broadcast messages, or social media.
Communication requirements analysis. Communication requirements analysis is an analytical
technique used to determine the information needs of the project stakeholders through interviews,
workshops, the study of lessons learned from previous projects, etc. Analysis of communication
requirements determines the information needs of the project stakeholders. These requirements
are defined by combining the type and format of information needed with an analysis of the value of
that information. Sources of information typically used to identify and define project communication
requirements include but are not limited to the following:
⚫
Stakeholder information and communication requirements from within the stakeholder
register and stakeholder engagement plan;
⚫ Number of potential communication channels or paths, including one-to-one, one-to-many,
and many-to-many communications;
⚫ Organizational charts;
⚫ Project organization and stakeholder responsibilities, relationships, and interdependencies;
⚫ Development approach;
⚫ Disciplines, departments, and specialties involved in the project;
⚫ Logistics of how many persons will be involved with the project and at which locations;
⚫ Internal information needs (e.g., when communicating within organizations);
⚫ External information needs (e.g., when communicating with the media, public, or
contractors); and
⚫ Legal requirements.
Communication skills. Communication skills are a collection of skills to provide, receive, and elicit
information from various sources. Communication skills can be oral, visual, or electronic. Oral
communication skills include interaction, presentation, active listening, and meeting facilitation.
Visual communication skills include data visualization and nonverbal communication. Electronic
communication skills include electronic tools such as professional writing, crafting emails, texting,
chatting, AI prompts, and similar activities.
Communication styles assessment. A communication styles assessment is a technique used to
assess communication styles and identify the preferred communication method, format, and content
for planned communication activities. Often used with unsupportive stakeholders, this assessment
may follow a stakeholder engagement assessment to identify gaps in stakeholder engagement that
require additional tailored communication activities and artifacts.
Communication technology. Communication technology includes specific tools, systems, computer
programs, etc., used to transfer information among project stakeholders. The methods used to
transfer information among project stakeholders may vary significantly. Common methods used
for information exchange and collaboration include conversations, meetings, written documents,
databases, social media, and websites.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.