108
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Tailoring in multiorganization projects requires careful consideration of how different organizational
processes, governance structures, and delivery approaches align. Integration planning should ensure
that tailored practices from each participating organization are harmonized to achieve cohesive
project outcomes.
3.4.3 Tailor for the Project
The key attributes that influence tailoring for the project are the product or deliverable, project team,
and culture. The project team should ask questions about each attribute to help guide them in the
tailoring process. Answers to these questions can help identify the need to tailor the processes,
development approach, life cycle, and tools and techniques.
3.4.3.1 Product or Deliverable
Key attributes associated with the product or deliverable include the following:
⚫
Standards compliance. How much process rigor and quality assurance are appropriate?
⚫ Type of product/deliverable. Is the product well known and easy to recognize, like a
building, or something intangible like software or the design of a new drug or vaccine?
⚫ Industry market. What market does the project, product, or deliverable serve? Is that
market highly regulated, fast moving, or slow to evolve? What about competitors and
incumbents?
⚫
Technology. Is the technology stable and well established or rapidly evolving and at risk of
obsolescence?
⚫ Timeframe. Is the project timeframe short, in weeks or months, or does it span several
years?
⚫
Stability of requirements. How likely are there to be changes to core requirements?
⚫ Security. Are elements of the product business confidential or classified?
⚫ Incremental and iterative delivery. Is this something the project team can develop and
get stakeholder feedback on incrementally and iteratively, refining the product through
repeated cycles, or is it hard to evaluate until it is near completion?
3.4.3.2 Project Team
Project team considerations include the following:
⚫
Project team size. How many full-time and/or part-time people will be working on the
project?
⚫ Project team geography. Where are the team members predominantly located
geographically? Will some or all of the team be remote or colocated?
⚫
Organizational distribution. Where are the supporting groups and stakeholders located?
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.