195
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
these meetings, fostering a collaborative environment where everyone can contribute their insights
and suggestions. The outcomes of retrospectives are actionable, with specific actions identified
and owners assigned to implement the improvements. This immediate impact allows for quick
adjustments and continuous enhancement of the project process.
Risk categorization. Risks to the project can be categorized by sources of risk (e.g., using the
risk breakdown structure [RBS]); the area of the project affected (e.g., using the work breakdown
structure [WBS]); or other useful categories (e.g., project phase, project budget, and roles and
responsibilities) to determine the areas of the project most exposed to the effects of uncertainty.
Risks can also be categorized by common root causes. Risk categories that may be used for the
project are defined in the risk management plan.
Grouping risks into categories can lead to the development of more effective risk responses by
focusing attention and effort on the areas of highest risk exposure, or by developing generic risk
responses to address groups of related risks.
Risk probability and impact assessment. Risk probability assessments consider the likelihood
that a specific risk will occur. Risk impact assessments consider the potential effect on one or
more project objectives such as schedule, cost, quality, or performance. Impacts will be negative
for threats and positive for opportunities. Probability and impact are assessed for each identified
individual project risk. Risks can be assessed in interviews or meetings with participants selected
for their familiarity with the types of risk recorded in the risk register. Project team members and
knowledgeable persons external to the project are included. The level of probability for each risk
and its impact on each objective are evaluated during the interview or meeting. Differences in the
levels of probability and impact perceived by stakeholders are to be expected, and such differences
should be explored. Explanatory detail, including assumptions justifying the levels assigned, are
also recorded. Risk probabilities and impacts are assessed using the definitions given in the risk
management plan. Risks with low probability and impact may be included within the risk register as
part of a watch list for future monitoring.
Figure 5-19. Sample RACI Matrix
RACI Matrix Person
Activity
Create charter
Collect
requirements
Submit change
request
Develop test plan
Ann Ben Carlos Dina Ed
A
I
R
R = Responsible   A = Accountable   C = Consulted   I = Informed
C
CC
A
A
AI
II
I
I
C
R
R
R
IR
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.