168
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
for modification or removal. The project team determines which dependencies are
discretionary during the process of sequencing the activities.
⚫ External dependencies. External dependencies involve a relationship between project
activities and non-project activities. These dependencies are usually outside of the project
team’s control. For example, the testing activity in a software project may be dependent on
the delivery of hardware from an external source, or governmental environmental hearings
may need to be held before site preparation can begin on a construction project. The
project management team determines which dependencies are external during the process
of sequencing the activities.
⚫
Internal dependencies. Internal dependencies involve a precedence relationship between
project activities and are generally inside the project team’s control. For example, if
the team cannot test a machine until they assemble it, there is an internal mandatory
dependency. The project management team determines which dependencies are internal
during the process of sequencing the activities.
Design thinking. Design thinking is a nonlinear, iterative process that teams use to understand
users, challenge assumptions, redefine problems, and create innovative solutions to prototype and
test. Design thinking is a human-centered needs analysis process, popularly used for new product
development projects. The process encourages collaboration and the exploration of different ideas
with a focus on customer experience, and is performed using several iterative activities such as
defining the problem, ideating options, prototyping, and testing.
Distributed management and leadership. This management structure emphasizes teamwork
and empowered individuals. As opposed to centralized management and leadership, a distributed
management and leadership structure means that decision-making and authority are decentralized
and distributed among various individuals and teams. Sometimes project management activities
are shared among a project management team, and project team members are responsible for
completing the work. There are also situations where a project team may self-organize to complete
a project. Rather than having a designated project manager, someone within the project team may
serve as facilitator to enable communication, collaboration, and engagement. This role may shift
among project team members. See also centralized management and leadership.
Document analysis. Document analysis consists of reviewing and assessing any relevant
documented information. There is a wide range of documents that may be analyzed. Examples of
documents that may be analyzed include but are not limited to the following:
⚫
Agreements and contracts;
⚫ Business plans, processes, or interface documentation;
⚫ Business rules repositories;
⚫ Current process flows;
⚫ Marketing literature;
⚫ Plans, assumptions, constraints, historical files, and technical documentation;
⚫ Problem/issue logs;
⚫ Policies and procedures;
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.