Notice
The Project Management Institute, Inc. (PMI) standards and guideline publications, of which the
document contained herein is one, are developed through a voluntary consensus standards
development process. This process brings together volunteers and/or seeks out the views of persons
who have an interest in the topic covered by this publication. While PMI administers the process
and establishes rules to promote fairness in the development of consensus, it does not write the
document and it does not independently test, evaluate, or verify the accuracy or completeness
of any information or the soundness of any judgments contained in its standards and guideline
publications.
PMI disclaims liability for any personal injury, property or other damages of any nature whatsoever,
whether special, indirect, consequential or compensatory, directly or indirectly resulting from the
publication, use of application, or reliance on this document. PMI disclaims and makes no guaranty
or warranty, expressed or implied, as to the accuracy or completeness of any information published
herein, and disclaims and makes no warranty that the information in this document will fulfill any
of your particular purposes or needs. PMI does not undertake to guarantee the performance of any
individual manufacturer or seller’s products or services by virtue of this standard or guide.
In publishing and making this document available, PMI is not undertaking to render professional or
other services for or on behalf of any person or entity, nor is PMI undertaking to perform any duty
owed by any person or entity to someone else. Anyone using this document should rely on his or
her own independent judgment or, as appropriate, seek the advice of a competent professional
in determining the exercise of reasonable care in any given circumstances. Information and other
standards on the topic covered by this publication may be available from other sources, which the
user may wish to consult for additional views or information not covered by this publication.
PMI has no power, nor does it undertake to police or enforce compliance with the contents of this
document. PMI does not certify, test, or inspect products, designs, or installations for safety or
health purposes. Any certification or other statement of compliance with any health or safety-related
information in this document shall not be attributable to PMI and is solely the responsibility of the
certifier or maker of the statement.
v
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.