237
X3.1 Artificial Intelligence in the Project Context
Artificial intelligence (AI) describes a set of technologies that simulate human behavior on computers.
This technology allows machines to perform tasks they were not directly programmed to do, learn
from experiences, and adapt to new situations. AI has a broad range of applications, including
pattern recognition, fraud detection, robotics, and the discovery of new drugs to combat diseases.
The quick changes in the field of AI, and its rising potential, require great adaptability for staying
current with new tools and in learning new ways of working.
Advances in the AI field, such as the development of large language models (LLMs), have expanded its
applicability while simplifying its adoption, bringing the technology to the mainstream. What was once
a tool only available to experts or companies with abundant resources is now accessible with minimal
manual intervention. In that sense, the technology has become so pervasive that every professional,
including project professionals, should obtain a better understanding of AI to remain productive.
Though AI’s long-term impacts remain to be seen, it is already creating a major shift in most
professions, increasing the productivity of the workforce and creating new job opportunities while
possibly extinguishing others.
A common classification of AI systems is described as follows and is shown in Figure X3-1:
⚫
Artificial intelligence (AI). AI is a broader term describing systems that can reason, learn,
and act autonomously.
⚫ Machine learning (ML). ML is a subfield of AI that uses data to train neural network
models, which can predict outputs based on previous inputs.
⚫ Deep learning (DL). DL is a more advanced ML type that relies on multilayered neural
networks to extract features and make decisions. Deep learning often requires large data
sets and significant computational resources.
⚫
Generative AI (GenAI). GenAI is a subset of deep learning that applies large language
models (LLMs) to create systems capable of generating new data such as text, speech,
audio, pictures, and videos, among others.
For the sake of simplification, this appendix refers to the broader term “AI,” even if some of the use
cases are built using more specific techniques such as GenAI.
Appendix X3
Artificial Intelligence
237
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.