21
Section 2 – A System for Value Delivery
⚫ Verification and validation processes;
⚫ Service-level agreements (SLAs); and
⚫ Project closure guidelines or requirements.
2.2.4 Organizational Knowledge Repositories
The organizational knowledge repositories for storing and retrieving information include but are not
limited to the following:
⚫ Configuration management knowledge repositories containing the versions of software
and hardware components and baselines of all performing organization standards, policies,
procedures, and project documents;
⚫
Financial data repositories containing information such as labor hours, incurred costs,
budgets, and any project cost overruns;
⚫ Historical information and lessons learned knowledge repositories such as project records
and documents, all project closure information and documentation, information regarding
both the results of previous project selection decisions and previous project performance
information, and information from risk activities;
⚫
Issue and defect management data repositories containing issue and defect status, control
information, issue and defect resolution, and action item results;
⚫ Data repositories for metrics used to collect and make available measurement data on
processes and products; and
⚫ Project files from previous projects such as scope, cost, schedules, performance
measurement baselines, project calendars, project schedule network diagrams, risk
registers, risk reports, and stakeholder registers.
2.2.5 Organizational Structures
Determination of the appropriate organizational structure type is the result of analyzing two key
elements. These elements are the organizational structure types available for use and how to
optimize them for a given organization. The analysis often involves considerations such as resource
allocation efficiency, decision-making speed, communication pathways, and the distribution of
authority and responsibility. The optimal structure depends on variables such as the organization’s
size, industry, geographical spread, strategic objectives, and the complexity of its projects.
There is not a one-size-fits-all structure for any given organization. The final structure for a given
organization is unique due to the numerous variables to be considered. Organizational structures
take many forms. Table 2-1 compares several types of organizational structures and their influence
on projects.
2.3 Product Management Considerations
Product management is the integration of people, data, processes, and business systems to create,
develop, and maintain a product or service throughout its life cycle. The product life cycle is a series
of phases that represents the evolution of a product, from introduction through growth, maturity,
and to retirement.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.