274
self-organizing team. A cross-functional team in which people assume leadership as needed to
achieve the team’s objectives.
specification. An attribute that is necessary to be present in a project deliverable to help meet or
exceed a target business objective.
sponsor. An individual or a group that provides resources and support for the portfolio, program, or
project, and is accountable for enabling success. See also stakeholder.
sprint. A timeboxed interval within a project during which a usable and potentially releasable
increment of a product is created. See also iteration.
stakeholder. An individual, group, or organization that may affect, be affected by, or perceive itself
to be affected by a decision, activity, or outcome of a portfolio, program, or project. See also sponsor.
standard. A document established by an authority, custom, or general consent as a model or
example.
statement of work (SOW). A narrative description of products, services, or results to be delivered by
the project.
status meeting. A regularly scheduled meeting to exchange and analyze information about the
current progress of the project and its performance.
steering committee. An advisory body of senior stakeholders who provide direction and support for
the portfolio, program, or project team and make decisions outside of the team’s authority.
story point. A unit used to estimate the relative level of effort needed to implement a user story.
strategic plan. A high-level document that explains an organization’s vision and mission plus the
approach that will be adopted to achieve this mission and vision, including the specific goals and
objectives to be achieved during the period covered by the document.
swarm. A method in which multiple team members focus collectively on resolving a specific problem
or task.
tacit knowledge. Personal knowledge that can be difficult to articulate and share such as beliefs,
experience, and insights.
tailoring. The deliberate adaptation of approach, governance, and processes to make them more
suitable for the given environment and the work at hand.
task board. A visual representation of the progress of the planned work that allows everyone to see
the status of the tasks. See also kanban board.
technical performance measures. Quantifiable measures of technical performance that are used to
ensure system components meet the technical requirements.
template. A partially complete document in a predefined format that provides a defined structure
for collecting, organizing, and presenting information and data.
threat. A risk that would have a negative effect on one or more portfolio, program, or project
objectives. See also issue, opportunity, and risk.
threshold. A predetermined value of a measurable project variable that represents a limit that
requires action to be taken if it is reached.
throughput. The number of items passing through a process.
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.