161
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
The critical path method is also used to calculate the total and free float, or scheduling flexibility,
for all logical paths in the network. On any network path, total float refers to the amount of time an
activity can be delayed without delaying the project finish date or violating a constraint. Free float is
the time an activity can be delayed without affecting the early start of its successor; for example, the
free float for Activity B in Figure 5-4 is 5 days.
While the critical path is usually characterized by zero total float, positive float may occur if a
constraint is placed later than the calculated early finish (from the forward pass). Conversely,
negative float occurs when constraints force dates earlier than logic and duration allow. Negative
float analysis can be used to explore acceleration strategies.
Some schedule networks may have multiple near-critical paths, and many software tools allow users
to define how criticality is measured. Adjustments to activity durations, logical relationships, leads
and lags, or constraints may be necessary to bring float values to zero or positive levels.
Critical thinking. Critical thinking is the ability to objectively question, analyze, interpret, evaluate,
and judge information to make reasonable decisions. Throughout the various project management
performance domains, there is a need to recognize bias, identify the root cause of problems, and
consider challenging issues such as ambiguity and complexity. Critical thinking helps to accomplish
these activities. Critical thinking includes disciplined, rational, logical, and evidence-based thinking.
This approach requires an open mind and the ability to analyze objectively. Critical thinking,
especially when applied to discovery, can include conceptual imagination, insight, and intuition;
it can also include reflective thinking and metacognition (thinking about thinking and being aware of
one’s awareness).
Critical Path Link
Noncritical Path Link
Activity
Node
Start FinishA
15 5
10 5
C
61 01 5
60 15
B
65 10
11 51 5
D
16 15 30
16 03 0
Activity Name
Early
Start Duration Early
Finish
Late
Start
Total
Float
Late
Finish
Path A–B–D = 25
Path A–C–D = 30
(Critical Path)
KEY
Note: This example uses the accepted convention of the project
starting on Day 1 for calculating start and ﬁnish dates. There are
other accepted conventions that may be used.
Figure 5-4. Example of Critical Path Method
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.