256
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
PMBOK®
Guide Edition Key Evolutionary Changes
1996 ⚫  Distinguished as “a guide to the body of knowledge,” rather than the body of
knowledge for project management.
⚫  Reflected the subset of the project management body of knowledge that is “generally
accepted,” meaning applicable to most projects most of the time, with widespread
consensus that practices have value and usefulness.
⚫  Defined project management as “the application of knowledge, skills, tools, and
techniques to project activities in order to meet or exceed stakeholder needs and
expectations from a project.”
⚫  Specific decision to shift to a process-based standard driven by a desire to show
interactions among Knowledge Areas; create a robust and flexible structure; and
recognize that International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and other
standards organizations were establishing process-based standards.
Third (2004)
⚫  First edition to incorporate the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) “ANSI
standard” logo on the cover.
⚫  First edition to formally designate The Standard for Project Management of a Project
separate and distinct from the Project Management Framework and Body of Knowledge.
⚫  Included material “generally recognized as good practice on most projects most of
the time.”
⚫  Defined project management as “the application of knowledge, skills, tools, and
techniques to project activities to meet the project requirements.”
Sixth (2017)
⚫  First edition to make a distinct separation between the ANSI standard and the guide.
⚫  First time “agile” content is incorporated into the text, not just referenced in  examples.
⚫  Expansion of Knowledge Area front material, including key concepts, trends and
emerging practices, tailoring considerations, and considerations for agile/adaptive
environments.
Seventh (2021)
⚫  First edition in which project management is characterized as a “system for value
delivery,” with an attendant shift in focus toward a more holistic, value-oriented
mindset, and less emphasis on project management mechanics.
⚫  First edition in which project management principles were elaborated.
⚫  Agile thinking and methods became more fully integrated compared to the sixth edition.
⚫ Shift from a process-based guide to a principles-based ANSI standard.
⚫  Shift from Knowledge Areas focused on processes to performance domains focused
on results.
Table X5-1. Evolutionary Changes of the PMBOK® Guide
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.