114
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Activity list. An activity list is a documented tabulation of schedule activities that shows the activity
description, activity identifier, and a sufficiently detailed scope of work description so project team
members understand what work is to be performed.
Agreements. Agreements are any document or communication that defines the initial intentions of a
project. These agreements can take the form of a contract, service-level agreement (SLA), memorandum
of understanding (MOU), letters of agreement, verbal agreement, purchase order, email, etc.
Agreements can be simple or complex. A complex project may involve multiple contracts
simultaneously or in sequence. Agreements should comply with local, national, and international
laws regarding contracts.
Approved change requests. Approved change requests are change requests that were processed
according to the change management plan by the project manager, change control board (CCB), or
another designated person, and are either approved, deferred, or rejected.
Approved change requests are implemented via the Manage Project Execution process. Deferred
or rejected change requests are communicated to the person or group requesting the change. The
dispositions of all change requests are recorded in the change log as a project document update. See
also change requests.
Approved changes. Approved changes are changes or modifications that are being implemented—
or have been implemented—as part of the project scope. Approved changes result from change
requests that have been fully approved through change control review meetings, either by the
project manager or change control board (CCB).
Assumption log. An assumption log is a project document used to record all assumptions and
constraints throughout the project. New assumptions and constraints may be added, and the status
of existing assumptions and constraints may be updated or closed out.
High-level (strategic and operational) constraints are normally identified in the business case
before the project is initiated and then flow into the project charter. Lower-level activity and task
assumptions are generated throughout the project such as defining technical specifications,
estimates, schedule activities, risks, etc. The assumption log is used to record all assumptions and
constraints throughout the project life cycle.
Backlog. A backlog is an ordered list of work to be done, often written as user stories, and prioritized
by the business to manage and organize an adaptive or agile project’s work. The backlog reflects
the current project needs, including the product requirements and user stories, and contains a
reprioritized plan for the remaining work.
The types of backlogs commonly used in adaptive and agile projects include the following:
⚫
Product backlog. Usually prepared by the product owner, the product backlog includes
requirements, features, epic user stories, and user stories, representing the overall scope
and vision of the product.
⚫ Iteration backlog. An iteration backlog is a subset of the product backlog that contains
selected user stories and the required tasks to complete the committed work during the
current iteration.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.