90
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
▶ Support. Projects can be challenging from the perspectives of technical challenges,
environmental influences, and interpersonal interactions. Supporting project team
members through problem-solving and removing impediments builds a supportive
culture and leads to a trusting and collaborative environment. Support can also be
demonstrated by providing encouragement, showing empathy, and engaging in
active listening.
▶
Courage. Recommending a new approach to a problem or a way of working can
be intimidating. Likewise, it can be challenging to disagree with a subject matter
expert or someone with greater authority. However, demonstrating the courage
that it takes to suggest, disagree, or try something new enables a culture of
experimentation and communicates to others that it is safe to be courageous and
try new approaches.
▶
Celebrate success. Focusing on project goals, challenges, and issues often
sidelines the fact that individual project team members and the project team are
steadily progressing toward those goals. While work takes priority, project team
members may neglect to recognize demonstrations of innovation, adaptation,
service to others, and learning. Instantly recognizing and celebrating successes and
“quick wins” may offer a sense of accomplishment, keep the team motivated, and
highlight the continuous progress made toward project goals.
⚫
Industry context. Due to the scarce nature of critical resources, in some industries several
trends have become popular in the past few years. There is extensive literature about lean
management, just-in-time manufacturing, Kaizen, total productive maintenance, theory
of constraints, and other methods. A project manager should determine if the performing
organization has adopted one or more resource-related methods, tools, and techniques
and adapted them to the project accordingly.
⚫
Organizational governance structures. Projects operate within a larger organizational
system. There may be the expectation that the organizational leadership style of top
management is recognized and reflected in the team’s leadership. The organizational
structure influences the degree to which authority and accountability are centralized or
distributed. For further details, see Section 5 on Tools and Techniques, where centralized
management and leadership and distributed management and leadership are explained.
⚫
Sustainability considerations in decision-making. Projects should consider the
environmental and social impact of every stage in the value chain, from hiring team members
to sourcing materials, transportation, and disposal. This effort may involve reducing
emissions, using renewable energy sources, minimizing waste, and positively affecting local
communities. For further details, please refer to the Integrate Sustainability Within All Project
Areas principle in The Standard for Project Management [1]. In addition, Section 5 provides
further details on tools and techniques such as green human resource management.
⚫
Maturity of the project team members. Project team members who are mature in their
technical fields may need less oversight and direction than project team members who are
new to the organization, team, or technical specialty.
⚫
Virtual project teams. A global project workforce is more common today than in the past.
Despite the best efforts to connect people virtually, it can be challenging to create the
same level of collaboration and relatedness that is achieved when working face to face. To
minimize the pitfalls of distributed project teams, technology should be used to increase
and improve communication.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.