139
Section 4 – Inputs and Outputs
Forecasts are updated and reissued based on work performance information provided as the project
is executed. The information is based on the project’s past performance and its expected future
performance based on corrective or preventive actions. This information may include earned value (EV)
performance indicators as well as schedule reserve information that could impact the project in the future.
Schedule management plan. The schedule management plan is a component of the program or
project management plan that establishes the criteria and the activities for developing, monitoring,
and controlling the schedule. The schedule management plan may be formal or informal and highly
detailed or broadly framed based on the needs of the project. The plan also includes appropriate
control thresholds.
The schedule management plan can establish the following:
⚫
Project schedule model development. The scheduling methodology and the scheduling
tool to be used in the development of the project schedule model are specified.
⚫ Release and iteration length. When using an adaptive life cycle, the timeboxed periods
for releases, waves, and iterations are specified. Timeboxed periods are durations during
which the team works steadily toward completion of a goal. Timeboxing helps to minimize
scope creep as it forces the team to process essential features first, then other features
when time permits.
⚫
Level of accuracy. The level of accuracy specifies the acceptable range used in determining
realistic activity duration estimates and may include an amount for contingencies.
⚫
Units of measure. Each unit of measurement (e.g., staff hours, days, or weeks for time
measures, or meters, liters, tons, kilometers, or cubic yards for quantity measures) is
defined for each of the resources.
⚫
Organizational procedures links. The work breakdown structure (WBS) provides the
framework for the schedule management plan, allowing for consistency with the estimates
and resulting schedules.
⚫
Project schedule model maintenance. The process used to update the status and record
progress of the project in the schedule model during the execution of the project is defined.
⚫ Control thresholds. Variance thresholds for monitoring schedule performance may be
specified to indicate an agreed-upon amount of variation to be allowed before some action
should be taken. Thresholds are typically expressed as percentage deviations from the
parameters established in the baseline plan.
⚫
Rules of performance measurement. Earned value management (EVM) rules or other
physical measurement rules of performance measurement are set. For example, the
schedule management plan may specify:
◾ Rules for establishing percent complete,
◾ Any EVM techniques (e.g., baselines, fixed formula, p ercent complete, etc.) to be
employed (for more specific information, refer to The Standard for Earned Value
Management [3]), and
◾ Schedule performance measurements, such as sched ule variance (SV) and schedule
performance index (SPI), used to assess the magnitude of variation to the original
schedule baseline.
⚫
Reporting formats. The formats and frequency for the various schedule reports are defined.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.