47
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
2.3 Schedule Performance Domain
Project scheduling provides a plan that represents how and when the project will deliver the
products, services, and results defined in the project scope. The schedule serves as a tool for
communication and for managing stakeholder expectations, and provides a basis for performance
reporting. The project schedule also facilitates the proactive identification of potential delays and
risks, enabling timely corrective actions to keep the project on track.
2.3.1 Key Concepts
Schedule management includes the processes required to oversee the project’s timely completion.
The detailed project schedule should be flexible throughout the project to adjust for the knowledge
gained, increased understanding of the risks and external influences, and value-added activities.
Revising and maintaining the project schedule to sustain a realistic schedule should continue
throughout the project.
Schedules can be created and defined at various levels. The project team specifies the rules for
the relative granularity of the level’s schedule activities in the overall schedule model. It should be
noted that schedule levels can change depending on the approach (e.g., adaptive or predictive),
practitioner, and organizational scheduling requirements.
With project timelines continuously shrinking, there may be insufficient time to analyze the project
details (sometimes, the details are also evolving). It may also be impossible to develop a detailed
project schedule up front, even in projects using a predictive approach, so a growing number of
project management practitioners are preparing detailed schedules progressively as their projects
unfold. This effort involves initially outlining the broad milestones and key activities of a project and
then refining and expanding upon them as more information becomes available or as the project
progresses. This approach allows for flexibility and adjustment as the project evolves and more
details become known. A well-known technique that helps with this approach is rolling wave planning.
The following key concepts support effective practices for the Schedule performance domain:
⚫
Project schedule. The project schedule is an output of a schedule model that presents
linked activities with planned dates, durations, milestones, and resources. The project
schedule may include start and finish dates; the total number of work periods required
to complete an activity or WBS component, expressed in hours, days, or weeks (known
as duration); significant points or events in a portfolio, program, or project (known as
milestones); and resources. For further information, see Section 2.6 on the Resources
performance domain.
⚫
Estimate. An estimate is a quantitative assessment of a variable’s likely amount or outcome,
such as project effort or duration. Effort is the number of labor units required to complete a
schedule activity or WBS component, often expressed in hours, days, or weeks. Duration is the
number of work periods needed to complete individual activities with the estimated resources.
⚫
Schedule baseline. The schedule baseline is the approved version of a schedule model
that can be changed using formal change control procedures and is used as the basis
for comparison to actual results. The level of formality on change control procedures
tends to be more rigid on projects using predictive approaches and more flexible, or even
nonexistent, on projects using adaptive and agile approaches.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.