52
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
⚫ Step 3: Estimate effort and duration. Estimating effort and duration is about determining
the number of work periods (hours, days, weeks, or other) needed to complete individual
activities with estimated resources. The key benefit of this process is that it provides the
amount of time and effort each activity will take to complete.
◾ Estimating effort and duration uses information from  the scope of work, required
resource types or skill levels, estimated resource quantities, and resource calendars.
(For more information, see the Scope performance domain in Section 2.2 and the
Resources performance domain in Section 2.6). The estimates can be based on the
following techniques:
▶
Expert judgment,
▶ Delphi technique,
▶ Analogous estimating,
▶ Parametric estimating,
▶ Program evaluation and review technique (PERT),
▶ Bottom-up estimating,
▶ Planning poker,
▶ Story points,
▶ T-shirt sizing, and
▶ Many others.
◾ Factors that may influence the duration estimates inc lude constraints imposed on the
duration, effort involved, or type of resources (e.g., fixed duration, fixed effort or work,
fixed number of resources, the experience of the team executing the activity, and the
risk involved in the activity), as well as the schedule network analysis technique used.
The inputs for the estimates of duration originate from the person or group on the
project team that is most familiar with the nature of the work for the specific activity.
◾ The duration estimate is progressively elaborated, an d the process considers the
quality and availability of the input data. For example, as more detailed and precise
data are available about the project engineering and design work, the accuracy and
quality of the duration estimates may improve.
◾ Estimating effort and duration requires an estimation  of the amount of work effort
required to complete the activity as well as the estimated number of available
resources. These estimates are used to approximate the number of work periods
(activity duration) needed to complete the activity using the appropriate project and
resource calendars.
◾ In many cases, the number of resources that are expected to be available to accomplish
an activity, along with the skill proficiency levels of those resources, may determine the
activity’s duration. A change to a driving resource allocated to the activity will usually
influence the duration.
◾ Sometimes, the intrinsic nature of the work (i.e., cons traints imposed on the duration,
effort involved, or number of resources) will take a predetermined amount of time to
complete, regardless of the resource allocation (e.g., a 24-hour stress test).
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.