45
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
adjustments in response to real-time external inputs. This flexibility enables the project team
to continuously refine and realign the project’s objectives with the evolving external conditions,
thus maintaining relevance and ensuring that the delivered value remains high.
⚫
Design phase. Some industries, such as pharmaceutical and construction, rely heavily on
the design phase of their projects. In such domains, it is essential to invest considerable
effort in the early stages of scope definition to prevent costly changes during the later stages.
This strategic rescoping, when done during the design phase, allows for a comprehensive
evaluation of the project’s direction before substantial resources are committed.
⚫
Adaptive and hybrid life cycles. Adaptive ways of working are based on the refinement of
the project scope, which takes place throughout several different iterations. Tailoring in a
project using a hybrid approach may be even more challenging, as the overall expectations
of the project are set with a scope baseline, schedule baseline, and cost baseline, whereas
subteams may be working in iterations on the user stories contained in the backlog. In this
case, there is an even greater need for a tailored approach to the activities and processes
within this performance domain, taking into consideration the variety of ways of working
used in the overall project.
2.2.3.1 Examples
The following are three examples of how these considerations might be applied:
⚫
Example 1. A project to develop a new product is set up using a backlog with user stories.
Rather than delivering all the user stories that are on the backlog, the team focuses on the
main product goals to satisfy the customer expectations. The scope of the project is refined
through different iterations.
⚫
Example 2. A software project to release a mobile app is aimed at a new market where little
information is available about customer preferences. Adopting an iterative approach with a
clear minimum viable product (MVP), created with the minimum features collected in a backlog,
could provide rapid feedback to the team and better support with adaptation to changes.
⚫
Example 3. A project for a new city park has been approved with a tight timeline for its
execution. With multiple stakeholders providing requirements and feedback, the project
manager decides to invest more time in the design phase, creating multiple mock-ups of
the park to evaluate before beginning construction.
2.2.4 Interactions With Other Domains
The scope of a project does not exist in isolation; it is deeply interconnected with other performance
domains that collectively determine a project’s success. While the Schedule and Finance performance
domains are the most obvious ones, as they are directly impacted in any scope change, other
domains like Risk and Stakeholders are significantly connected as well.
One important aspect is understanding the governance mechanisms within a project, particularly as
they relate to the broader organizational context. Changes to the project scope should be navigated
within these established governance structures to address potential consequences such as the need
for additional budgets or resources. Such changes may be subject to review and approval processes
to ensure that relevant scope modifications are justified and aligned with the strategic objectives
of both the project and the organization. This adherence to governance is vital because scope
fundamentally
drives the project’s value.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.