192
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
sources of overall project risk, for example PESTLE (political, economic, sociocultural, technological,
legal, environmental), TECOP (technical, environmental, commercial, operational, political), or VUCA
(volatility, uncertainty, complexity, ambiguity).
Questionnaires and surveys. Questionnaires and surveys are written sets of questions designed to
quickly accumulate information from a large number of respondents. Questionnaires and/or surveys
are most appropriate with varied audiences, when a quick turnaround is needed, when respondents
are geographically dispersed, and where statistical analysis could be appropriate.
Recognition and rewards. Part of the team development process involves recognizing and
rewarding desirable behavior. The original plan for rewarding people is developed during the Plan
Resource Management process. Cultural differences influence how recognition and rewards are best
delivered, and understanding these differences helps ensure that the rewards program is meaningful
and motivating for everyone. Tailoring recognition to align with cultural preferences increases the
effectiveness of reward systems and enhances employee satisfaction.
People are motivated when they feel they are valued in the organization, and this value is
demonstrated by the rewards given to them. Generally, money is viewed as a tangible aspect of any
reward system, but intangible rewards could be equally or even more effective. Most project team
members are motivated by an opportunity to grow, accomplish, be appreciated, and apply their
professional skills to meet new challenges. A good strategy for project managers is to give the team
recognition throughout the project life cycle rather than waiting until the project is complete.
Regression analysis.  Regression analysis is an analytical method where a series of input
variables are examined in relation to their corresponding output results in order to develop a
mathematical or statistical relationship. This technique analyzes the interrelationships between
different project variables that contributed to project outcomes in order to improve performance
on future projects.
Reserve analysis. Reserve analysis is a method used to evaluate the amount of risk on the project
and the amount of schedule and budget reserve to determine whether the reserve is sufficient for
the remaining risk. Reserve analysis is used as an analytical technique to determine the essential
features and relationships of components in the project management plan in order to establish a
reserve for the schedule duration, budget, estimated cost, or funds for a project.
Cost estimates may include contingency reserves (sometimes called contingency allowances) to
account for cost uncertainty. Contingency reserves are the budget within the cost baseline that
is allocated for identified risks. Contingency reserves are often viewed as the part of the budget
intended to address the known-unknowns that can affect a project. For example, rework for some
project deliverables could be anticipated, while the amount of this rework is unknown. Contingency
reserves may be estimated to account for this unknown amount of rework. Contingency reserves can
be provided at any level from the specific activity to the entire project. The contingency reserve may
be a percentage of the estimated cost, a fixed number, or may be developed by using quantitative
analysis methods. As more precise information about the project becomes available, the contingency
reserve may be used, reduced, or eliminated. Contingency should be clearly identified in the
cost documentation. Contingency reserves are part of the cost baseline and the overall funding
requirements for the project.
Resource leveling. See resource optimization technique.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.