144
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Work performance information. Work performance information includes the work performance
data collected from controlling processes, analyzed in comparison with project management plan
components, project documents, and other work performance details. This comparison helps to
indicate how the project is performing.
Specific work performance metrics for scope, schedule, budget, and quality are defined at the start
of the project as part of the project management plan. Performance data is then collected during the
project and compared to the plan and other variables to provide a context for work performance.
For example, work performance data on cost may include funds that have been expended.
However, to be useful, that data should be compared to the budget, the work that was performed,
the resources used to accomplish the work, and the funding schedule. This additional information
provides the context to determine if the project is on budget or if there is a variance. This information
also indicates the degree of variance from the plan, and by comparing it to the variance thresholds in
the project management plan it can indicate if preventive or corrective action is required. Interpreting
work performance data and additional information provides a sound foundation for making project
decisions.
Work performance reports. Work performance reports are the physical or electronic
representations of work performance information compiled in project documents, which are
intended to generate decisions, actions, or awareness. The reports are circulated to project
stakeholders through the communication processes as defined in the project’s communications
management plan.
Examples of work performance reports include status reports and progress reports. Work
performance reports may contain status of configuration items, earned value (EV) graphs and
information, trend lines and forecasts, iteration burndown charts, defect histograms, contract
performance information, and risk summaries. The reports can be presented as dashboards, heat
reports, stoplight charts, or other representations useful for promoting awareness and generating
decisions and actions.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.