112
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
3.7 Summary
Tailoring adapts the approach, governance, and processes to fit the project’s environment and
objectives, which involves analyzing and modifying people, processes, and tools. The tailoring process
includes four steps:
⚫
Select the initial development approach,
⚫ Tailor for the organization,
⚫ Tailor for the project, and
⚫ Improve continuously.
Tailoring is typically led by project stakeholders, with organizational guidelines and governance ensuring
alignment and consistency across teams. Tailoring is not just about making changes, but also about
verifying and validating that the tailored approaches are effective and aligned with project outcomes.
Table 3-1. Common Situations and Tailoring Suggestions
Situation Tailoring Suggestion
The deliverables are poor quality. Analyze the root causes of poor quality and implement targeted
feedback and quality assurance measures where needed. Focus on
process improvements rather than just increasing verification steps.
Team members are unsure of
how to proceed or undertake their
work.
Assess the specific needs of the team to identify the most
appropriate support mechanisms, including guidance, mentorship,
training, and knowledge-sharing practices.
Team members are not
cooperative and are working in
silos.
Conduct team-building activities and hold individual meetings
to understand the cause. Take actions to strengthen bonds and
promote coordination among team members.
There are long delays waiting for
approvals.
Streamline the approval process by appointing people who are
authorized to make decisions up to certain value thresholds,
shortening the time needed for approvals.
There is too much work in progress
and/or waste.
Use techniques like value stream mapping and kanban boards to
visualize work, identify issues, and find solutions.
Stakeholders are not engaged or
they share negative feedback.
Assess whether stakeholders receive timely and relevant information,
tailoring communication methods to balance simplicity with the need
for deeper engagement.
There is a lack of transparency
and understanding about project
progress.
Check to ensure that appropriate data is collected, analyzed, shared,
and discussed during team and stakeholder meetings. Validate
agreement on the measures with the team and stakeholders.
Issues and/or risks for which the
team is unprepared continue to
surface, requiring the team to
react rather than make progress
on their work.
Explore root causes to identify whether there are related gaps in
project processes or activities.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.