165
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
A WBS structure may be created through various approaches. Some of the popular methods include
the top-down approach, the use of organization-specific guidelines, and the use of WBS templates.
A bottom-up approach can be used to group subcomponents. The WBS structure can be represented
in various forms, such as:
⚫
Using phases of the project life cycle as the second level of decomposition, with the product
and project deliverables inserted at the third level, as shown in Figure 5-7;
⚫ Using major deliverables as the second level of decomposition, as shown in Figure 5-8; and
⚫ Incorporating subcomponents that may be developed by organizations outside the project
team, such as contracted work. The seller then develops the supporting contract WBS as
part of the contracted work.
Decomposition of the upper-level WBS components requires subdividing the work for each of
the deliverables or subcomponents into its most fundamental components, where the WBS
components represent verifiable products, services, or results. If an agile approach is used, epics can
be decomposed into user stories. The WBS may be structured as an outline, organizational chart,
or other method that identifies a hierarchical breakdown. Verifying the correctness of the
decomposition requires determining that the lower-level WBS components are those that are
necessary and sufficient for completion of the corresponding higher-level deliverables. Different
deliverables can have different levels of decomposition.
To arrive at a work package, the work for some deliverables should be decomposed only to the
next level, while others may require additional levels of decomposition. As the work is decomposed
1.0
Value Management
System Project
1.1
Needs
Assessment
1.2
Standards
Development
1.3
Systems
Engineering
1.4
Project
Management
Note: The WBS is illustrative only. It is not intended to represent the full project scope of any speciﬁc project, nor to imply that this
is the only way to organize a WBS on this type of project.
1.1.1.1
Components
Identiﬁcation
1.1.2.1
Gap
Assessment
1.1.3.1
Alternatives
Identiﬁcation
1.1.4
System Requirements
Development
1.1.3
Alternatives
Development
1.1.2
Requirements
Determination
1.1.1
Current System
Audit
1.1.1.2
Components
Analysis
1.1.2.2
Requirements
Changes Identiﬁcation
1.1.3.2
Alternative
Analysis
Figure 5-6. Sample WBS Decomposed Down Through Work Packages
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.