137
Section 4 – Inputs and Outputs
Risk register. A risk register is a repository in which outputs of risk management processes are recorded.
The risk register captures details of identified individual project risks. The results of the following
processes are recorded in the risk register as these processes are conducted throughout the project:
⚫ Identify Risks,
⚫ Perform Risk Analysis,
⚫ Plan Risk Responses,
⚫ Implement Risk Responses, and
⚫ Monitor Risks.
The risk register may contain limited or extensive risk information depending on project variables
such as size and complexity.
When the Identify Risks process is performed, the content of the risk register may include but is not
limited to the following:
⚫
List of identified risks. Each individual project risk is given a unique identifier in the risk
register. Identified risks are described in as much detail as required to ensure unambiguous
understanding. A structured risk statement may be used to distinguish risks from their
cause(s) and their effect(s).
⚫
Potential risk owners. Where a potential risk owner has been identified during the Identify
Risks process, the risk owner is recorded in the risk register. This information will be
confirmed during the Perform Risk Analysis process.
⚫
List of potential risk responses. Where a potential risk response has been identified
during the Identify Risks process, it is recorded in the risk register. This information will be
confirmed during the Plan Risk Responses process.
Additional data may be recorded for each identified risk, depending on the risk register format
specified in the risk management plan. This may include the following:
⚫
Short risk title,
⚫ Risk category,
⚫ Current risk status,
⚫ One or more causes,
⚫ One or more effects on objectives,
⚫ Risk triggers (events or conditions that indicate that a risk is about to occur),
⚫ WBS reference of affected activities, and
⚫ Timing information (when a risk was identified, when a risk might occur, when a risk may no
longer be relevant, and the deadline for taking action).
Risk register updates. The risk register updates refer to the process of revising the risk register to
reflect new risks, reassess existing risks, and update response strategies as the project progresses.
Risk register updates are a key component of risk management that help to ensure the project’s risk
documentation remains current and actionable. The process of updating the risk register is iterative
and should be performed regularly throughout the project life cycle.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.