126
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Project document updates. The project document updates include updates to the project
documents created throughout the five Project Management Focus Areas to initiate, plan, execute,
monitor and control, and close the project before delivering it.
Project funding requirements. The project funding requirements are the total funding
requirements and periodic funding requirements (e.g., quarterly, annually) that are derived from the
cost baseline. The cost baseline includes the projected expenditures plus the contingency reserves.
Funding often occurs in incremental amounts and may not be evenly distributed (see Figure 4-1).
The total funds required are those included in the cost baseline plus management reserves, if any.
Funding requirements may include the source(s) of the funding. The budget at completion (BAC) is
the sum of all budgets established for the work to be performed.
Project management plan. The project management plan is the document that describes how the
project will be executed, monitored and controlled, and closed. The project management plan defines
the basis for all project decisions and is a living document that can be expected to change over time.
A project management plan typically consists of the following components: change management
plan, communications management plan, financial management plan, iteration plan, procurement
management plan, quality management plan, requirements management plan, release plan,
resource management plan, risk management plan, schedule management plan, scope management
plan, sourcing strategy plan, stakeholder engagement plan, and test plan. However, the project
team or the organization may tailor the content of the project management plan to include only
those elements that are most relevant to the specific project context, objectives, and organizational
requirements.
Budget at
Completion
Project Budget
Management Reserve
Funding Requirements
Cost Baseline
Expenditures
Time
Cumulative Values
Figure 4-1. Cost Baseline, Expenditures, and Funding Requirements
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.