86
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
2.6.2.4.2 High-Performing Project Teams
The following list is not comprehensive, but identifies some of the factors associated with high-
performing project teams, which is a goal of effective leadership:
⚫ Open communication. An environment that fosters open and safe communication
allows for productive meetings, problem-solving, brainstorming, understanding, trust, and
collaboration.
⚫
Shared understanding. Shared understanding can be achieved when the purpose of the
project and the benefits that it will provide are held in common with the team. Shared
understanding is closely related to project alignment, which helps ensure that the project’s
goals and activities are in line with the organization’s mission and strategy. This effort
involves developing a shared understanding of the project’s purpose and goals—and how
to achieve them.
⚫
Shared ownership. The more ownership that project team members feel over the
outcomes, the more likely they are to perform effectively.
⚫
Trust. A project team that is composed of members who trust one another is more willing
to perform at a higher level to deliver success. People are less likely to do the extra work it
may take to succeed if they do not trust their project team members, project manager, or
the organization.
⚫
Collaboration. Project team members who work as a team, rather than working in silos or
competitively, tend to generate more diverse ideas and deliver better outcomes.
⚫ Adaptability. Project teams that can adapt the way they work to their particular
environment or situation are more effective.
⚫
Resilience. When issues or failures occur, high-performing project teams recover quickly.
⚫ Empowerment, delegation, and autonomy. Project team members who feel empowered
to make decisions about the way they work and about specific details in the deliverables
being produced—even under limited range—perform better and have a higher degree of
satisfaction than those who are micromanaged.
⚫
Recognition. Project team members who are recognized for the work they put in and the
performance that they achieve are more likely to continue to perform well. Even the simple
act of showing appreciation reinforces positive team behaviors.
The specific tools and techniques of the Lead the Team process are colocation, virtual teams,
recognition and rewards, training, individual and team assessments, emotional intelligence,
leadership, distributed management and leadership, centralized management and leadership,
servant leadership, coaching and mentoring, organizational cultural intelligence, virtual collaboration
tools, retrospectives, critical thinking, and specific problem-solving methods such as Six Thinking
Hats
®3 (see Section 5 on Tools and Techniques).
The specific outputs of the Lead the Team process include team performance assessments.
3 Six Thinking Hats® is a registered trademark of The de Bono Group.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.