177
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
◾ A good vision is clear, concise, and actionable. It does  the following:
▶ Summarizes the project with a powerful phrase or short description;
▶ Describes the best achievable outcome;
▶ Creates a common, cohesive picture in project team members’ minds; and
▶ Inspires passion for the outcome.
⚫ Critical thinking. Critical thinking, especially when applied to discovery, can include
conceptual imagination, insight, and intuition. Project team members apply critical thinking
to do the following:
◾ Research and gather unbiased, well-balanced inform ation;
◾ Recognize, analyze, and resolve problems;
◾ Identify bias, unstated assumptions, and values;
◾ Discern the use of language and its influence on one self and others;
◾ Analyze data and evidence to evaluate arguments an d perspectives;
◾ Observe events to identify patterns and relationships ;
◾ Apply inductive, deductive, and abductive reasoning appropriately; and
◾ Identify and articulate false premises, false analogy, e motional appeals, and other
faulty logic (for more information, see critical thinking).
⚫ Motivation. Motivating project team members has two aspects: The first is understanding
what motivates project team members to perform, and the second is working with project
team members in such a way that they remain committed to the project and its outcomes
(for more information, see motivation).
⚫
Interpersonal skills. Interpersonal skills that are used frequently in projects include
emotional intelligence, decision-making, and conflict resolution, among others.
◾ Emotional intelligence. Emotional intelligence is the ability to identify, assess, and
manage the personal emotions of oneself and other people, as well as the collective
emotions of groups of people. There are multiple models for defining and explaining
emotional intelligence. Figure 5-11 shows the key points for each of the four aspects of
emotional intelligence and how they relate. The aspects having to do with oneself are
on the top, and the social aspects are on the bottom. Awareness is on the left side, and
management and skill are on the right side.
Emotional intelligence models converge on four key areas:
▶ Self-awareness. Self-awareness is the ability to conduct a realistic self-assessment.
This ability includes understanding our own emotions, goals, motivations,
strengths, and weaknesses.
▶
Self-management. Self-management, also known as self-regulation, is the ability to
control and redirect disruptive feelings and impulses. It is the ability to think before
acting, suspending snap judgments and impulsive decisions.
▶
Social awareness. Social awareness is about empathy and understanding and
considering other people’s feelings. This key area includes the ability to read
nonverbal cues and body language.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.