188
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
assurance and quality improvement. Using a structured problem-solving method can help eliminate
the problem and develop a long-lasting solution. Problem-solving methods generally include the
following actions:
⚫
Define the problem,
⚫ Identify the root cause,
⚫ Generate possible solutions,
⚫ Choose the best solution,
⚫ Implement the solution, and
⚫ Verify solution effectiveness.
Process analysis. Process analysis identifies opportunities for process improvements. The analysis
also examines problems, constraints, and non-value-added activities that occur during a process.
Process automations. Process automation, which can also include robotic process automation
(RPA), helps speed up business processes. Process automation can reduce manual project work
and costs, enhance project team and customer experiences by configuring computer software, or
be a software robot that performs tasks by mimicking a human. Process automation can be used
for project team meeting scheduling, sending reminders, or other manual project tasks that take a
sufficient number of hours and can be described as a set of rules or instructions.
Process improvement. Process improvement refers to the systematic approach of enhancing the
efficiency and effectiveness of a process within an organization. This approach involves analyzing
current processes, identifying areas for improvement, and implementing changes to achieve better
performance, quality, and customer satisfaction. The ultimate goal of process improvement is to
optimize operations, reduce waste, and increase value for both the organization and its customers.
Product analysis. Product analysis can be used to define products and services. This analysis
includes asking questions about a product or service and forming answers to describe the use,
characteristics, and other relevant aspects of what is going to be manufactured or delivered.
Each application area has one or more generally accepted methods for translating high-level product
or service descriptions into meaningful deliverables. Requirements are captured at a high level and
decomposed to the level of detail needed to design the final product. Examples of product analysis
techniques include but are not limited to the following:
⚫
Product breakdown,
⚫ Requirements analysis,
⚫ Systems analysis,
⚫ Systems engineering,
⚫ Value analysis, and
⚫ Value engineering.
Project canvas.  A project canvas is a visual tool used to outline and plan the key elements of a
project (see Figure 5-15). A project canvas provides a structured framework that helps project
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.