10
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
the value of the project investment. To that end, each performance domain concludes with
guidance on maintaining a focus on that value. For any process output, there should be a
corresponding, higher-order outcome in mind. A project schedule itself does not add value;
its true importance lies in fostering stakeholder alignment around the overall timeline for
delivering project value.
2.1 Governance Performance Domain
Project governance is applicable across all project management approaches, including predictive,
adaptive, and hybrid, with variations based on industry, organizational context, and project specifics.
Governance consists of the framework, functions, and processes that guide project management
decisions and activities to optimize the project’s value delivery. This governance framework is holistic
and integrative, considering all other performance domains.
Project governance is shaped by the performing organization’s governance model as well as
stakeholders such as customers and regulatory bodies. The Governance performance domain
includes elements of project integration management related to strategic alignment, decision-
making and change, and project success criteria. Additionally, the Governance performance domain
integrates risk and opportunity management, helping ensure proactive identification and mitigation
of potential issues while leveraging opportunities for added value. This performance domain also
helps to ensure project alignment with the portfolio, organizational strategy, and goals. Additionally,
the domain involves interrelated activities to identify, define, combine, unify, and coordinate various
processes, documents, and project management activities as an integrated system for value delivery.
These activities often leverage technology and data-driven tools, enabling real-time tracking, analysis,
and reporting to support informed decision-making.
Governance can be tailored to different approaches: lightweight for adaptive methods; moderate
or combined for hybrid projects; and comprehensive for large, predictive portfolios, programs,
and projects. To help ensure continuous improvement, feedback loops are incorporated into the
governance framework, allowing for periodic reviews, lessons learned, and iterative adjustments to
governance practices.
2.1.1 Project Value Creation
The fundamental objective of any project is to create positive value that justifies the investment and
effort undertaken. Effective governance involves oversight and corrections to help steer a project
toward its broader goals.
The Standard for Project Management [1] defines five Focus Areas for the success of any project. The
relationship of the Governance performance domain to those Focus Areas is as follows:
⚫
Initiating. Successful projects begin with a clear description of the desired end state.
A clearly articulated business case enables stakeholder alignment on priorities and
constraints, and provides team members with a broader context that informs their work.
This alignment can be implemented as part of the Initiate Project or Phase process, via
informal governance discussions, and/or other approaches.
⚫
Planning. Every part of project planning should be performed with the project’s target
goals in mind. Explicit deliverables and activities should be identified to enable those goals.
This alignment is illustrated in the Integrate and Align Project Plans process.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.