184
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Nominal group. The nominal group technique is a structured method used to facilitate group
decision-making by gathering input from participants in a systematic manner. The technique was
developed to address the challenges of chaotic and unproductive discussions, particularly in large
groups dealing with controversial topics. This technique aims to equalize participation and minimize
the dominance of more vocal members, ensuring that all ideas are considered before any discussion
takes place.
Nonverbal communication. Examples of nonverbal communication include appropriate body
language to transmit meaning through gestures, tone of voice, and facial expressions. Mirroring and
eye contact are also important techniques. The team members should be aware of how they are
expressing themselves, both through what they say and what they do not say.
Observation/conversation.  Observation and conversation provide a direct way of viewing
individuals in their environment to see how they perform their jobs or tasks and carry out
processes. Observation and conversation are particularly helpful for detailed processes when
the people who use the product have difficulty or are reluctant to articulate their requirements.
Observation is also known as “job shadowing.” The observation is usually done externally by
an observer viewing a business expert performing a job. The observation can also be done by
a “participant observer” who performs a process or procedure to experience how it is done to
uncover hidden requirements.
Organizational cultural intelligence. Organizational cultural intelligence is the capability of
the enterprise to perform effectively in culturally diverse, complex situations and a multicultural
world. For example, project managers and teams with high organizational cultural intelligence may
demonstrate strong cultural skills and recognize that different team members from different cultural
regions can think and express themselves differently. However, at the same time, these project
managers and teams avoid demonstrating careless cultural stereotyping.
Organizational theory. Organizational theory provides information regarding the way in which
people, teams, and organizational units behave. Effective use of common techniques identified in
organizational theory can shorten the amount of time, cost, and effort needed to create the Plan
Resource Management process outputs and improve planning efficiency. Applicable organizational
theories may recommend exercising a flexible leadership style that adapts to the changes in a team’s
maturity level throughout the project life cycle. It is important to recognize that the organization’s
structure and culture impact the project’s organizational structure.
Parametric estimating. Parametric estimating is an estimating technique in which an algorithm
is used to calculate cost or duration based on historical data and project parameters. Parametric
estimating uses a statistical relationship between historical data and other variables (e.g., square
footage in construction) to calculate an estimate for activity parameters, such as cost, budget, and
duration.
Durations can be quantitatively determined by multiplying the quantity of work to be performed
by the number of labor hours per unit of work. For example, duration on a design project is
estimated by the number of drawings multiplied by the number of labor hours per drawing, or on
a cable installation, the meters of cable multiplied by the number of labor hours per meter. If the
assigned resource is capable of installing 25 meters of cable per hour, the duration required to
install 1,000 meters is 40 hours (1,000 meters divided by 25 meters per hour).
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.