10
At determined points, deliverables, human resources, and knowledge are transferred between
the project and operations for implementation of the delivered work. These transfers help ensure
the seamless integration of project outcomes into the organization’s operational framework. This
implementation may occur through a transfer of project resources or knowledge to operations or
through a transfer of operational resources to the project. Engaging operations teams early in project
planning is beneficial and can significantly influence the long-term success and sustainability of a
project. This is when the project is typically handed over to operations to sustain and use the results
of the project.
1.3.4 Relationship of Portfolio, Program, Project, and Operations Management
By utilizing project management principles, processes, tools, and techniques, organizations can
effectively achieve their goals and objectives while delivering value. Portfolios, programs, projects,
and operations are integral components of an organization, each serving interconnected roles.
Projects are often managed as stand-alone initiatives but they can also be part of larger portfolios or
programs. When projects are grouped together into a program, they are managed in a coordinated
manner to obtain benefits not available from managing them individually. Programs drive significant
organizational change; they are not merely large projects. Programs aim to achieve organizational
change and improvement by connecting resources and aligning projects strategically to create
synergies. This integration maximizes generated value, enhances efficiency, and delivers value that
individual projects cannot achieve on their own.
Some organizations use a portfolio to manage multiple programs and projects that are underway at
any given time. A portfolio is a collection of programs, projects, and operations managed as a group
to maximize overall value delivery and achieve strategic objectives, meet mandatory obligations,
or generate income streams. Portfolio management involves selecting, prioritizing, managing, and
optimizing an organization’s programs and projects in line with its strategic goals, obligations (legal
or otherwise), or business objectives. This holistic view helps ensure that resources are allocated
efficiently and that the portfolio delivers maximum value.
Portfolios, programs, projects, and operations often engage with the same stakeholders and may
compete for the same resources. Portfolio, program, and project managers should work together
with operations leaders to maintain a balanced approach to resource allocation and stakeholder
engagement. Overlap and competition for resources can otherwise threaten the organization’s
strategic objectives.
Figure 1-2 illustrates a sample portfolio indicating the relationships among the organizational
components (i.e., programs, projects, shared resources, and stakeholders). Organizational and
portfolio planning impact these components through prioritization based on risks, funding, and other
considerations. The portfolio view allows organizations to see how the strategic goals are reflected
in the portfolio. This portfolio view also enables the implementation and coordination of appropriate
portfolio, program, and project governance. Coordinated governance allows for the authorized
allocation of human, financial, and physical resources based on expected performance and benefits.
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.