131
Section 4 – Inputs and Outputs
⚫ Project requirements. These requirements describe the actions, processes, or other
conditions the project should meet. Examples include milestone dates, contractual
obligations, constraints, etc.
⚫
Quality requirements. These requirements capture any condition or criteria required to
validate the successful completion of a project deliverable or fulfillment of other project
requirements. Examples include tests, certifications, validations, etc.
Requirements management plan. A requirements management plan is a component of
the program or project management plan that describes how requirements will be analyzed,
documented, and managed. According to Business Analysis for Practitioners: A Practice Guide [2], some
organizations refer to the requirements management plan as a business analysis plan. Components
of the requirements management plan may include but are not limited to the following:
⚫
How requirements activities will be planned, tracked, and reported;
⚫ Configuration management activities such as:
◾ How changes will be initiated;
◾ How impacts will be analyzed;
◾ How changes will be traced, tracked, and reported; a nd
◾ Authorization levels required to approve these chang es.
⚫ Requirements prioritization process;
⚫ Metrics that will be used and the rationale for using them; and
⚫ Traceability structure that reflects the requirement attributes captured on the requirements
traceability matrix.
Requirements traceability matrix. The requirements traceability matrix is a grid that links product
requirements from their origin to the deliverables that satisfy them. The implementation of a requirements
traceability matrix helps to ensure that each requirement adds business value by linking it to the business
and project objectives. The matrix provides a means to track requirements throughout the project life
cycle, helping to ensure that requirements approved in the requirements documentation are delivered at
the end of the project. Finally, it provides a structure for managing changes to the product scope.
The requirements traceability matrix includes but is not limited to the following:
⚫
Business needs, opportunities, goals, and objectives;
⚫ Project objectives;
⚫ Project scope and WBS deliverables;
⚫ Product design;
⚫ Product development;
⚫ Test strategy and test scenarios; and
⚫ High-level requirements to more detailed requirements.
Attributes associated with each requirement can be recorded in the requirements traceability
matrix. These attributes help to define key information about the requirement. Typical attributes
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.