50
Sustainability is essential for addressing global challenges such as climate change, biodiversity
loss, pollution, societal inequities, and community well-being. By integrating sustainability into
project management, organizations can align with the triple bottom line‚ balancing social equity,
environmental stewardship, and economic prosperity. This dual focus on sustainability and
project outcomes not only enhances corporate social responsibility but also fosters innovative and
responsible technological practices that contribute to long-term value creation. Other benefits for
organizations implementing sustainability broadly include the following:
⚫
Organizational benefits. These benefits include employee satisfaction, performance
improvements, staff retention, and stronger recruitment. Additional benefits include
improved relationships with shareholders and stakeholders, optimized risk responses and
impacts, increased resilience and organizational learning, and enhanced decision-making
processes. This overall improvement results from resolving ethical dilemmas, enhancing
corporate governance, complying with laws and regulations, reducing litigation costs,
increasing brand value, and boosting corporate reputation.
⚫
Operational benefits. These benefits include innovation in internal processes, productivity
improvements due to operational waste minimization, and designing for sustainability.
⚫
Financial benefits. These benefits include but are not limited to direct cost savings from
reduced material and energy usage, lower operational costs, less waste, decreased capital
expenses, increased share value, and more investments from sustainable finance investors.
⚫
Benefits related to customers and stakeholders. These benefits include increased
satisfaction and innovation driven by active listening and open communication with
customers and stakeholders throughout the project life cycle. Additional advantages are
market share growth due to the rising demand for sustainable and innovative products
globally, a stronger reputation, and new market opportunities.
3.7.1 Project Impact
Sustainability principles can be evident at all tactical, operational, and strategic levels of projects.
Indeed, relevant processes and practices may already be integrated into enterprise environmental
factors (EEFs). For example, enterprise sustainability or information management strategies may
impose requirements on project deliverables and teams. Additionally, these principles can impact
projects from initiation to closure. For instance, sustainability-related key performance indicators
(KPIs) may be included in the project scope statement, project charter, business case, contracts,
or other formal documents authorizing project activities. Compliance can be monitored during
project planning, execution, and closure. As sustainability is integrated into strategic goals for
most organizations and communities, projects play a pivotal role in realizing sustainable practices
and outcomes (see Figure 3-8). Instilling sustainability in project management requires the
following:
⚫
Having a societal perspective for projects and their outcomes;
⚫ Maintaining broad stakeholder engagement through a “management for stakeholder”
approach;
⚫ Leading the team and stakeholders with responsible (ethical) leadership; and
⚫ Holistically focusing on the value generated by the project from the perspective of the
broader stakeholder audience such as value creation and distribution.
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.