106
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Tailoring project management approaches requires thoughtful consideration of contextual factors to
ensure that the chosen methodology aligns with project needs and organizational goals. One useful
concept in this regard is the suitability filter. A suitability filter is not a rigid method or procedure,
but rather a decision-making tool that helps project teams evaluate their unique circumstances.
A suitability filter assists project teams with analyzing the project’s characteristics and determining
the best fit among predictive, adaptive, or hybrid approaches. The suitability filter combines its
assessment with other data and decision-making activities, so the appropriate tailored approach is
decided for each project. By evaluating criteria based on culture, project team dynamics, and project
factors, a suitability filter assists discussion and decision on the initial approach.
3.4.2 Tailor for the Organization
Project teams own and improve their processes, but organizations can provide methodologies and
development approaches as starting points for projects requiring oversight. These guides can help
support repeatable processes, consistent capability measurement, and continuous improvement.
Organizations that have established process governance should ensure tailoring is aligned to policy.
Tailoring for the organization involves adding, removing, and reconfiguring elements of the approach
to make it more suitable for the individual organization. This process is shown in Figure 3-2.
Tailoring within an organization should also consider the context of the program and/or portfolio
within which the project operates. Aligning tailoring decisions across related projects can enhance
consistency and efficiency, promoting a cohesive approach within the organizational structure.
Choose a
development
approach best
suited for
the endeavor Modify based on
organizational
requirements
Adjust based on
size, criticality,
and other factors Inspect
and adapt
1) Select Initial
Development
Approach
2) Tailor for
Organization
3) Tailor for
Project
4) Implement
Ongoing
Improvement
Figure 3-1. Details of the Steps in the Tailoring Process
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.