143
Section 4 – Inputs and Outputs
to improve the team’s performance. This effort should also include identifying the appropriate
or required resources necessary to achieve and implement the improvements identified in the
assessment.
Team performance assignments. The team performance assignments refer to the allocation of tasks
and responsibilities to team members based on their skills, roles, and the project’s requirements. The
assignments are used to ensure that the project progresses efficiently and effectively.
User stories. A user story is a brief, textual description of an outcome from a specific stakeholder
perspective, and is a promise for a conversation to clarify details. User stories clarify details or
required functionality in a conversational manner, which is a clear and concise representation of a
requirement written from the end user’s perspective. A typical user story should describe the user or
stakeholder’s role, who benefits from the feature (role), what the stakeholder needs to accomplish
(goal), and the benefit to the stakeholder (motivation). The acceptance criteria in a user story should
focus on the specific functionalities and end-user expectations that should be fulfilled.
Verified deliverables. Verified deliverables are completed project deliverables that have been
checked and confirmed for correctness through the Monitor and Control Scope process. A goal of
the Monitor and Control Scope process is to determine the correctness of deliverables. The results
of performing the Monitor and Control Scope process are verified deliverables that become an
input to the Validate Scope process for formalized acceptance. If there are any change requests or
improvements related to the deliverables, they should be changed, inspected, and reverified.
Virtual resource assignments. Virtual resources include software, testing environments, licenses,
and anything else created or seen using computers or the internet that is needed for efficient and
effective project completion. Virtual resource assignments are the documentation of the virtual
resources that will be used during the project. The virtual resource assignments describe the
expected resource utilization and details such as type, amount, location, and whether the resource is
internal to the organization or outsourced.
WBS dictionary. See scope baseline.
Work breakdown structure (WBS). See scope baseline.
Work package estimation. The work package estimation is defined at the lowest level of the work
breakdown structure (WBS), for which cost and duration are estimated and managed. For example,
simulation can be used to estimate work packages. The simulation involves calculating multiple work
package durations and costs with different sets of activity assumptions, constraints, risks, issues, or
scenarios using probability distributions and other representations of uncertainty. Throughout the
project, work packages are progressively elaborated into activities.
Work performance data. Work performance data includes the raw observations and measurements
identified during activities being performed to carry out project work. The data is often viewed as the
lowest level of detail from which information is derived by other processes. The data is then gathered
through work execution and passed to the controlling processes for further analysis.
Examples of work performance data include work completed, key performance indicators (KPIs),
technical performance measures, actual start and finish dates of schedule activities, story points
completed, deliverables status, schedule progress, number of change requests, number of defects,
actual costs incurred, actual durations, etc.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.