166
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Note: The WBS is illustrative only. It is not intended to represent the full project scope of any speciﬁc project, nor to imply that this is
the only way to organize a WBS on this type of project.
Software Product
Release 5.0
Detail
Design Construct Integration
and Test
Project
Management
Product
Requirements
Planning SoftwareS oftware Software Software
Meetings User
Documentation
User
Documentation
User
Documentation
User
Documentation
Administration Training Program
Materials
Training Program
Materials
Training Program
Materials
Training Program
Materials
Figure 5-7. Sample WBS Organized by Phase
to greater levels of detail, the ability to plan, manage, and control the work is enhanced. However,
excessive decomposition can lead to a nonproductive management effort, inefficient use of
resources, decreased efficiency in performing the work, and difficulty aggregating data over different
levels of the WBS.
Decomposition may not be possible for a deliverable or subcomponent that will be accomplished far
into the future. The project management team usually waits until the deliverable or subcomponent is
agreed on so that the details of the WBS can be developed. This technique is sometimes referred to
as rolling wave planning.
The WBS represents all product and project work, including the project management work. The total
of the work at the lowest levels should roll up to the higher levels so that nothing is left out and no
extra work is performed. This is sometimes called the 100 percent rule.
For specific information regarding the WBS, refer to the Practice Standard for Work Breakdown
Structures [4]. The practice standard contains industry-specific examples of WBS templates that
can be tailored to specific projects in a particular application area.
Dependency determination and integration. Dependencies may be characterized by the following
attributes: mandatory or discretionary and internal or external. Dependency has four attributes, but
two can be applicable at the same time in the following ways: mandatory external dependencies,
mandatory internal dependencies, discretionary external dependencies, or discretionary internal
dependencies.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.