170
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
A project manager should invest in their personal emotional intelligence by improving inbound (e.g.,
self-management and self-awareness) and outbound (e.g., relationship management) competencies.
Research suggests that project teams that succeed in developing team emotional intelligence or
become an emotionally competent group are more effective. Additionally, there is usually a reduction
in staff turnover. See also leadership.
Estimation techniques. Estimating is a process of determining the time and resources needed
to complete the project. Estimation techniques involve various methods for forecasting variables.
Estimating techniques can be qualitative or quantitative. Qualitative estimating techniques involve
estimates based on understanding processes, behaviors, and conditions that individuals or groups
perceive. Qualitative estimating techniques can be used together with quantitative methods.
Quantitative estimating techniques include numerical estimates of effort, duration, or cost. The most
common estimation techniques include the following:
⚫ Expert judgment (see expert judgment),
⚫ Analogous estimating (see analogous estimating),
⚫ Bottom-up estimating (see bottom-up estimating),
⚫ Multipoint estimating (see multipoint estimating), and
⚫ Parametric estimating (see parametric estimating).
Expert judgment. Expert judgment is judgment provided based upon expertise in an application
area, discipline, industry, etc., as appropriate for the activity being performed. Such expertise may be
provided by any group or person with specialized education, knowledge, skill, experience, or training.
Facilitation. Facilitation is the ability to effectively guide a group event to a successful decision,
solution, or conclusion. A facilitator helps ensure the following:
⚫ There is effective participation,
⚫ Participants achieve a mutual understanding,
⚫ All contributions are considered,
⚫ Conclusions or results have full buy-in according to the decision process established for the
project, and
⚫ Actions and agreements that are achieved are appropriately dealt with afterward.
Feedback. Feedback is information about reactions to communications, a deliverable, or a situation.
Feedback supports interactive communication among the project manager, project team, and all
other project stakeholders. Examples include coaching, mentoring, and negotiating.
Financing. Financing entails acquiring funding for projects. It is common for long-term infrastructure,
industrial, and public services projects to seek external sources of funds. If a project is funded
externally, the funding entity may have certain requirements that must be met.
Flowchart. Flowcharts are visual representations that map out the sequence of steps and branching
possibilities within a process. They are also known as process maps and are used to transform one
or more inputs into one or more outputs. Flowcharts are instrumental in illustrating the activities,
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.