69
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
▶ Assigning and empowering the project manager,
▶ Initiating a steering committee and being a member of it,
▶ Approving the project management plan and any changes to it,
▶ Ensuring the long-term benefits realization of project deliverables,
▶ Proposing project termination, and
▶ Authorizing project completion.
In many cases the project sponsor, especially on high-priority projects, may be a member of the
executive leadership team. This arrangement requires specific effort in understanding the needs and
ways of communication that may better fit this type of stakeholder. Research shows that an active
project sponsor is a critical success factor in achieving positive outcomes from projects.
⚫
Stakeholder satisfaction. Stakeholder satisfaction should be prioritized and integrated
into the project objectives. The key to driving stakeholder satisfaction is maintaining a
focus on continuous communication with all stakeholders, including customers, end users,
managers, executives, and team members, to understand their needs and expectations,
address issues as they occur, manage conflicting interests, and foster appropriate
stakeholder engagement in project decisions and activities.
⚫
Team engagement. The project team members are also critical stakeholders and
should be treated as such. The work done and accomplished during the project comes
from the team, as well as the recommendations on the way forward in challenging
decisions that are then taken by the sponsor and stakeholders regarding the direction of
the project.
⚫
Communications management. Communications management is a crucial concept for
keeping stakeholders engaged. The way of communicating should be tailored based on the
needs and best fit for the stakeholders, so they have all the information they need to make
decisions and are aware of the possible risks related to certain actions.
⚫
Data-driven decision-making . Effective decision-making is a critical responsibility for
project managers, especially when securing timely decisions from stakeholders. This
effort requires thorough preparation of supporting materials and the ability to guide
the decision-making process. With the increasing volume and complexity of project
data, project managers can leverage AI-powered tools to efficiently collect, analyze,
and interpret data, generating actionable insights. AI technologies, such as predictive
analytics and data visualization, can enhance the project manager’s ability to present
data-driven recommendations, enabling stakeholders to make informed decisions with
greater confidence and speed. Combining AI capabilities with strong leadership skills
allows project managers to proactively guide stakeholders toward fact-based, strategic
decisions.
⚫
Vendor and supplier management/procurement. Even though procurement is not
a core part of this performance domain, there are important skills related to vendor
management that the project manager should have. Vendors and suppliers are important
stakeholders in projects where external resources are involved. In specific industries, such
as construction, vendor management and procurement are key elements to the success of
the project.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.