38
helps ensure that all project aspects are considered and aligned. The Embed Quality Into Processes
and Deliverables and Focus on Value principles are primarily addressed within the Governance, Scope,
Risk, Schedule, Finance, and Stakeholders performance domains, ensuring the deliverables genuinely
help drive realization of the project’s target business objectives. The Be an Accountable Leader principle
intersects with the Governance, Stakeholders, and Risk performance domains, highlighting the
importance of leadership in project success. Finally, the Integrate Sustainability Within All Project Areas
and Build an Empowered Culture principles are relevant across all performance domains.
3.3 Adopt a Holistic View
The Adopt a Holistic View principle involves understanding and managing projects by considering all
components and their interdependencies as part of a larger system (see Figure 3-2). This perspective
aligns with the concept of systems thinking, which emphasizes the interconnectedness of elements
within a project. This principle provides a framework for viewing interrelationships in their full
context and for seeing patterns rather than static “snapshots.”
Embracing a holistic perspective is crucial for managing project complexity, as it enables project
managers to grasp the overall situation and the connections among different project components. This
method aids in pinpointing the root causes of challenges and tackling them efficiently. Additionally,
aligning with systems thinking, a holistic perspective fosters an in-depth comprehension of the project
landscape. Viewing the project as a unified entity makes it simpler to trace problems to their origins,
allowing for an interdisciplinary approach that fosters more innovative and effective solutions.
3.3.1 Project Impact
Applying a holistic view to project management results in a more integrated and cohesive approach
to achieving project goals. Key characteristics of projects managed with a holistic view include:
⚫
Alignment with organizational strategy and goals. Projects are more likely to contribute
positively to the strategic objectives of the organization.
Adopt a Holistic View
Adopt a holistic view
throughout the project lif e
cycle‚ from initiation all
the way to execution and
closing‚ ensuring seamless
integration and alignment
at every stage.
Viewing a project holistically helps ensure that decisions
consider all interconnected elements, optimizing alignment
with overarching objectives and enhancing project
sustainability.
Proactively managing risks across all project domains
anticipates challenges and strengthens project resilience,
minimizing potential disr uptions.
Engaging stakeholders throughout the project life cycle
fosters collaboration, integrates diverse perspectives , and
raises the probability that desired outcomes are achieved.
Figure 3-2. Adopt a Holistic View
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.