47
Section 3 – Project Management Principles
⚫ Shared leadership. Leadership is not exclusive to any specific role; in different moments
of the project, a team member, stakeholder, or professional may take the leadership seat.
High-performing projects feature multiple people exercising leadership skills. Leadership is
different from authority. Authority is the position of control given to individuals within the
organization, whereas leadership is about inspiring and motivating others through leading
by example.
3.6.1 Project Impact
As leaders, project managers influence—through their behavior—all of the professionals involved
in a project. A project manager influences the project and team through a combination of
leadership, effective communication, decision-making, emotional intelligence, problem-solving,
stakeholder engagement, and strategic thinking. Their leadership style directly shapes team
dynamics, motivation, and overall performance. Emotional intelligence enables the project
manager to navigate conflicts and stress while strong stakeholder engagement helps secure
support and buy-in.
Accountable leaders focus on delivering value beyond the project work. They commit to promoting
the growth of other leaders around them and making a positive impact on their area of influence.
The implications of this principle are profound and diverse for the project manager and all relevant
stakeholders and lead to the following:
⚫
Enhanced team performance,
⚫ Increased trust and morale,
⚫ Improved decision-making,
⚫ Greater stakeholder confidence, and
⚫ Resilience in facing challenges.
Be an Accountable Leader
Demonstrate leader ship
behaviors and be an
accountable leader by
guiding your team with
integrity, making
responsible decisions,
and fostering a culture of
trust and responsibility .
Leaders inﬂuence, inspire, and motivate others.
Leaders are accountable for their actions.
Effective leaders lead by  example.
Leaders demonstrate responsibility, respect, fairness, and honesty.
Effective leaders adapt their style to the situation.
Leaders foster an environment of psychological safety .
Any project professional, stak eholder, and team member can
demonstrate leadership beha viors.
Figure 3-5. Be an Accountable Leader
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.