68
4.3.2 Project
Project variables that influence the choice of development approach may include the following:
⚫ Stakeholders. Projects that use adaptive methods typically call for significant stakeholder
involvement throughout the process.
⚫ Schedule constraints. If there is value to be realized from delivering something early, even
if it is not a finished product, an iterative or adaptive approach may be optimal. Meanwhile,
when a fixed end date must be met, a predictive approach can help focus planning on
delivery timelines.
⚫
Financing uncertainty. Projects being executed in an environment of financing uncertainty
may generate more value using an adaptive or iterative approach.
⚫ Project size and complexity. More flexible approaches are more suitable for larger,
complex projects with evolving requirements.
⚫
Team experience and skills. Projects managed using an adaptive or agile approach may
benefit from teams with strong communication, collaboration, and problem-solving skills.
⚫
Interdependencies. A reliance on other projects, departments, or functions for decisions,
components, or resources may be a decision factor for the project team to consider for
delivering projects with an iterative approach.
4.3.3 Organization
Organizational variables such as the structure, culture, capability, project team size, and location can
influence the choice of development approach. The organizational variables to consider may include
the following:
⚫
Organizational structure. Organizations with a fixed functional structure—and more
traditional hierarchical arrangements—are more inclined to select a predictive approach
due to preferred lines of authority. Organizations with a network-oriented structure may be
more naturally inclined to embrace more adaptive or hybrid approaches.
⚫
Culture. A predictive approach may be a better fit in an organization with a culture of
managing and directing, where the work is planned out and progress is measured against
baselines. Adaptive approaches may fit better in an organizational culture that more easily
embraces uncertainty while also emphasizing self-managed teams, flexible thinking, and
innovation.
⚫
Organizational capability. Organizational policies, ways of working, reporting structures,
and attitudes should all be aligned to employ delivery methods successfully. Additionally,
the extent to which project management processes are established can influence the
reliability and predictability of the chosen project delivery approach.
⚫
Project team size and location. Adaptive approaches often work better with smaller
project teams. Some adaptive frameworks recommend having between three and nine
team members. In predictive and hybrid approaches, this number may depend more
on the project’s requirements and scope complexity. Team location is relevant to all
approaches, though some adaptive methods call for the colocation of team members. For
some individuals and teams, remote work may enhance efficiency and focus on the team’s
execution.
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.