37
Section 3 – Project Management Principles
Being proactive is a key habit that shapes effective project management and drives the team
toward achieving strategic objectives. The proactive mindset in project management emphasizes
systems thinking and appropriate levels of planning to help ensure that target quality thresholds
are embedded within every phase of the project. The proactive mindset integrates the project
management principles of Adopt a Holistic View and Embed Quality Into Processes and Deliverables,
fostering a culture of continuous improvement and forward-thinking action (see Section 3.2 for
details on the project management principles). The mindset enables project managers to anticipate
challenges, address them promptly, and align processes with evolving project and stakeholder needs,
thereby enhancing overall project resilience and success.
The ownership dimension focuses on the accountability of leaders and the development of a high-
performance team culture. This dimension integrates the principles of Be an Accountable Leader and
Build an Empowered Culture, ensuring that leadership is not just about making decisions but also
about fostering a culture of accountability and collaboration. This mindset supports the development
of strong, self-reliant teams that drive project success through shared ownership and commitment.
The value-driven dimension emphasizes delivering maximum value by seamlessly integrating
sustainability throughout the project life cycle. This dimension incorporates the principles of Focus
on Value and Integrate Sustainability Within All Project Areas. By aligning projects with organizational
strategic objectives and emphasizing contributions to the broader community and the environment
(i.e., achieving the triple bottom line of people, profit, and planet), this dimension helps ensure that
project outcomes are both impactful and sustainable. Ultimately, the value-driven dimension promotes
a balance between achieving measurable success and advancing broader sustainability goals.
By integrating the proactive, ownership, and value-driven mindset dimensions, organizations can
create a solid framework for achieving exceptional project results. This holistic approach helps ensure
that projects are planned and executed in a manner intended to meet or exceed target business
objectives (proactive), lead with accountability and empowerment (ownership), and drive projects
forward with a focus on value and sustainability (value-driven). Together, these dimensions enable
organizations to deliver projects that not only drive the execution of an organization’s strategy, but
are also socially responsible and environmentally sustainable.
3.2 Principles and Performance Domains
Performance domains are designed to enable the practical application of project management
principles and ensure this mindset is translated into effective practices and outcomes. These
performance domains represent the mechanics of project management, including the knowledge,
processes, and methods that are essential for effective project delivery.
The project management performance domains include Governance, Scope (including quality),
Schedule, Finance, Stakeholders, Resources, and Risk. These performance domains are described in
detail in A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK
® Guide) [2].
Each performance domain plays an important role in operationalizing project management principles
by providing a structured approach to managing various aspects of a project. Conversely, the project
management principles serve as the foundation of the performance domains.
While all the principles relate to all performance domains, some are connected more strongly than
others. For instance, the Adopt a Holistic View principle is supported by all performance domains, which
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.