167
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
⚫ Mandatory dependencies. Mandatory dependencies are those that are legally or
contractually required or inherent in the nature of the work. Mandatory dependencies
often involve physical limitations, such as on a construction project, where it is impossible
to erect the superstructure until after the foundation has been built, or on an electronics
project, where a prototype has to be built before it can be tested. Mandatory dependencies
are sometimes referred to as hard logic or hard dependencies. Technical dependencies
may not be mandatory. The project team determines which dependencies are mandatory
during the process of sequencing the activities. Mandatory dependencies should not be
confused with assigning schedule constraints in the scheduling tool.
⚫
Discretionary dependencies. Discretionary dependencies are sometimes referred to as
preferred logic, preferential logic, or soft logic. Discretionary dependencies are established
based on knowledge of good practices within a particular application area or some unusual
aspect of the project where a specific sequence is desired, even though there may be other
acceptable sequences. For example, generally accepted good practices recommend that
during construction, the electrical work should start after finishing the plumbing work.
This order is not mandatory and both activities may occur at the same time (in parallel);
however, performing the activities in sequential order reduces the overall project risk.
Discretionary dependencies should be fully documented since they can create arbitrary
total float values and can limit later scheduling options. When fast tracking techniques
are employed, these discretionary dependencies should be reviewed and considered
Note: The WBS is illustrative only. It is not intended to represent the full project scope of any speciﬁc project, nor to imply that this is the
only way to organize a WBS on this type of project.
Aircraft
System
Project
Management Training Data Air
Vehicle
Support
Equipment Facilities Test and
Evaluation
Mock-ups
Operational
Test
Developmental
Test
Test
System
Engineering
Management
Supporting
PM Activities
Equipment
Training
Facilities
Training
Services
Training
Technical
Orders
Engineering
Data
Management
Data
Organizational-
Level SE
Intermediate-
Level SE
Depot-
Level SE
Base
Buildings
Maintenance
Facility
Airframe Engine Communication
System
Navigation
System
Fire Control
System
Figure 5-8. Sample WBS With Major Deliverables
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.