16
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
It should be noted that the processes of the Governance performance domain span across the
project life cycle from initiation to closure. Governance is not a one-time activity; it is pervasive
throughout the project life cycle. The following processes are included in the Governance
performance domain (see Figure 2-2):
⚫
Initiate Project or Phase. The process of officially authorizing the start of a project by
creating a document that establishes a link between the project and the business objectives.
⚫ Integrate and Align Project Plans. The process of consolidating and aligning all of the
performance domain’s plan components into a unified project management plan that
details how the project will be executed, monitored and controlled, and closed.
⚫
Plan Sourcing Strategy. The process of deciding whether to use internal or external
resources for different parts of a project, considering factors such as organizational culture,
specialized skills, resource capacity, risk, and the overall value proposition. Management
and oversight of outsourcing efforts can be handled by the project management team or a
dedicated procurement department.
⚫
Manage Project Execution. The process of leading and performing the work defined in the
integrated project plans, including managing resources, addressing issues and risks, and
implementing changes to achieve the project objectives.
⚫
Manage Quality Assurance. The process of ensuring processes are performed in a
manner consistent with stakeholder expectations, involving the implementation of planned
and systematic activities defined in the project’s quality management plan. This process
helps build confidence in future outputs, improves process efficiency and effectiveness, and
ensures proper project governance to meet or exceed stakeholder expectations.
Figure 2-2. Governance Performance Domain Processes Overview
Close
Project or
Phase
ClosingPlanning
Executing
Monitoring and Controlling
Initiating
Initiate
Project or
Phase
Integrate and
Align Project
Plans
Plan
Sourcing
Strategy
Monitor and
Control Project
Performance
Assess and
Implement
Changes
Manage
Project
Knowledge
Manage
Quality
Assurance
Manage
Project
Execution
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.