146
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
⚫ Learning and improvement. The primary goal is to reinforce learning and improve future
performance by applying the insights gained from the review.
⚫ Participant involvement. All team members involved in the project participate in the
review, ensuring a comprehensive understanding of the events and outcomes.
⚫ Structured reflection. The AARs follow a structured format, asking four key questions:
◾ What was supposed to happen?
◾ What actually happened?
◾ Why were there differences?
◾ What can we learn?
In summary, AARs are a valuable tool for continuous improvement in project management. The
reviews provide a structured approach to reflect on project performance, engage team members in
the diagnostic process, and capture lessons learned to enhance future projects.
Agile release planning. Agile release planning provides a high-level summary timeline of the release
schedule (typically 3–6 months) based on the product roadmap and the product vision for the product’s
evolution. Agile release planning determines the number of iterations or sprints in the release. This
planning empowers the product owner and team to determine the development scope, timelines, and
a releasable product, factoring in business goals, dependencies, impediments, and resource availability.
Since features represent expected value to the customer, the timeline provides a more easily
understood project schedule as it defines which features will be available at the end of each iteration.
Figure 5-1 shows the typical relationship among product vision, product roadmap, release planning,
and iteration planning. While the figure shows tasks estimated in hours, it is important to note that
many agile teams use story points instead. Story points reflect the relative effort or complexity rather
than absolute time, based on the understanding that teams are typically better at comparing work
items than predicting precise durations. This approach simplifies planning while preserving accuracy,
as estimating hours can be more time-consuming and less reliable in dynamic environments.
Alternative analysis. Alternative analysis is a method used to evaluate identified options in order
to select the options or approaches to use when performing the work of the project. In a project
context, two examples include (1) determining what solution might best address a project’s business
or mission objectives, and (2) determining the best approach for executing and completing project
tasks within the defined constraints.
Analogous estimating. Analogous estimating is a technique for estimating the duration, cost, or
required resources for an activity or a project using historical data from a similar activity or project.
Analogous estimating uses parameters from a previous, similar project, such as duration, budget, size,
weight, and complexity, as the basis for estimating the same parameter or measure for a future project.
When estimating durations, this technique relies on the actual duration of previous, similar projects
as the basis for estimating the duration of the current project. It is a gross value estimating approach,
sometimes adjusted for known differences in project complexity. Analogous duration estimating is
frequently used to estimate project duration when there is limited detailed information about the project.
Analogous estimating is generally less costly and less time-consuming than other techniques but can
also be less accurate. Analogous duration estimates can be applied to a total project or to segments
of a project and may be used in conjunction with other estimating methods. Analogous estimating is
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.