172
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
department. An operational department, such as information technology or purchasing,
can see all of its project responsibilities by looking at its portion of the OBS.
⚫ Resource breakdown structure. A resource breakdown structure is a hierarchical
representation of resources by category and type. The resource breakdown structure is
used for planning, managing, and controlling project work. Each descending (lower) level
represents an increasingly detailed description of the resource until the information is small
enough to be used in conjunction with the WBS to allow the work to be planned, monitored,
and controlled.
⚫
Value breakdown structure (VBS). A VBS is a WBS with value estimates assigned to
each element. The VBS can be useful in determining whether a given scope element is
truly mandatory—that is, equal to the value of the entire project, as removing that scope
element would erase the value of the project. When a VBS element is on the critical path, it
can be useful to help assess whether a higher-value baseline may exist (e.g., when the value
of accelerating or removing a given VBS element might exceed the cost of doing so).
Historical information review. Reviewing historical information can assist in developing parametric
estimates or analogous estimates. Historical information may include project characteristics
(parameters) to develop mathematical models to predict total project costs. Such models may be
simple (e.g., residential home construction is based on a certain cost per square foot of space)
or complex (e.g., one model of software development costing uses multiple separate adjustment
factors, each of which has numerous points within it).
Both the cost and accuracy of analogous and parametric models can vary widely. They are most likely
to be reliable when:
⚫
Historical information used to develop the model is accurate;
⚫ Parameters used in the model are readily quantifiable; and
⚫ Models are scalable, such that they work for large projects, small projects, and phases of a
project.
Individual and team assessments. Individual and team assessment tools give the project manager
and the project team insight into areas of strengths and weaknesses. These tools help project
managers assess team members’ preferences and aspirations, as well as how they process and
organize information, make decisions, and interact with people. Various tools are available such as
attitudinal surveys, specific assessments, structured interviews, ability tests, and focus groups. These
tools can provide improved understanding, trust, commitment, and communication among team
members and facilitate more productive teams throughout the project.
Influence diagrams. Influence diagrams are graphical representations of situations that can be
used when making decisions under uncertainty. They show causal influences, time ordering of
events, and other relationships among variables and outcomes. An influence diagram represents a
project or situation within the project as a set of entities, outcomes, and influences, together with
the relationships and effects among them. Where an element in the influence diagram is uncertain
as a result of the existence of individual project risks or other sources of uncertainty, this can be
represented in the influence diagram using ranges or probability distributions. The influence diagram
is then evaluated using a simulation technique, such as Monte Carlo analysis, to indicate which
elements have the greatest influence on key outcomes. Outputs from an influence diagram are
similar to other quantitative risk analysis methods, including S-curve diagrams and tornado diagrams.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.