268
external dependencies. Relationships between project activities and non-project activities.
fast tracking. A schedule compression technique in which activities or phases normally done in
sequence are performed in parallel for at least a portion of their duration. See also crashing.
feature. A set of related requirements or functionalities that provides value to an organization.
fixed-price contract. An agreement that sets the fee that will be paid for a defined scope of work
regardless of the cost or effort to deliver it.
flow. The measure of how efficiently work moves through a given process or framework.
forecast. An estimate or prediction of conditions and events in the project’s future based on
information and knowledge available at the time of the forecast.
function point. An estimate of the amount of business functionality in an information system, used
to calculate the functional size measurement of a software system.
Gantt chart. A bar chart of schedule information where activities are listed on the vertical axis,
dates are shown on the horizontal axis, and activity durations are shown as horizontal bars placed
according to start and finish dates.
governance. The framework for directing and enabling an organization through its established
policies, practices, and other relevant documentation.
histogram. A bar chart that shows the graphical representation of numerical data.
hybrid approach. A combination of elements from both adaptive and predictive approaches that is
useful when there is uncertainty or risk around the requirements.
impediment. An obstacle that prevents the team from achieving its objectives. Also known as a
blocker.
incremental approach. An adaptive development approach in which the deliverable is produced
successively, adding functionality until the deliverable contains the necessary and sufficient capability
to be considered complete.
Initiating Focus Area. Those processes performed to define a new project or new phase of an
existing project by obtaining authorization to start the project or phase.
internal dependencies. Relationships between two or more project activities.
issue. A current condition or situation that may have an impact on one or more objectives. See also
opportunity, risk, and threat.
iteration. A short cycle of development during which a product or deliverable is released or further
matured. See also sprint.
iteration plan. A detailed plan for the current iteration.
iteration planning. A meeting to clarify the details of the backlog items, acceptance criteria, and
work effort required to meet an upcoming iteration commitment.
iteration review. A meeting held at the end of an iteration to demonstrate the work that was
accomplished during the iteration.
iterative approach. A development approach that focuses on an initial, simplified implementation
then progressively elaborates, adding to the feature set until the final deliverable is complete.
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.