127
Section 4 – Inputs and Outputs
Project management plan updates. Project management plan updates are updates to the
document that describes how the project is being executed, monitored and controlled, and closed.
Project schedule. The project schedule is an output of a schedule model that presents linked
activities with planned dates, durations, milestones, and resources. The detailed project
schedule should be flexible throughout the project to adjust for the knowledge gained, increased
understanding of the risks, and value-added activities.
Project schedule network diagram. The project schedule network diagram is a graphical
representation of the logical relationships among the project schedule activities. Logical
relationships may also be referred to as dependencies. Figure 4-2 illustrates a project schedule
network diagram. A project schedule network diagram is produced manually or by using project
management software. The diagram may include full project details or may have one or more
summary activities. A summary narrative can accompany the diagram and describe the basic
approach used to sequence the activities. Any unusual activity sequences within the network should
be fully described within the narrative.
Activities that have multiple predecessor activities indicate a path convergence. Activities that have
multiple successor activities indicate a path divergence. Activities with divergence and convergence
are at greater risk as they are affected by multiple activities or can affect multiple activities. Activity I
is called a path convergence, as it has more than one predecessor, while activity K is called a path
divergence, as it has more than one successor.
Figure 4-2. Example of a Project Schedule Network Diagram
FF
FS + 15
SS + 10
SS
AB
CD E
Begin HFG End
IJ
KL
Note: SS means start-to-start;
FS means ﬁnish-to-start; and
FF means ﬁnish-to-ﬁnish.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.