151
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
and are conducted by a small number of senior leaders. In an environment where management
activities are centralized, accountability (being answerable for an outcome) is usually assigned to
one individual such as the project manager or similar role. In these situations, a project charter or
other authorizing document can provide approval for the project manager to form a project team to
achieve the project outcomes. See also distributed management and leadership.
Change control tools. To facilitate configuration and change management, both manual and
automated tools can be utilized. Configuration control focuses on specifying both deliverables and
processes, while change control is concerned with identifying, documenting, and approving or
rejecting changes to project documents, deliverables, or baselines. Tool selection should be based on
the needs of project stakeholders, considering organizational and environmental constraints.
Configuration management activities supported by these change control tools include identifying
configuration items, recording and reporting their status, and performing configuration item
verification and audits. These activities can ensure that the product configuration is defined
and verified, changes are managed, and accountability is maintained, meeting the functional
requirements outlined in the configuration documentation.
Change management activities supported by these change control tools include identifying and
selecting change items, documenting changes into proper change requests, and deciding on changes by
reviewing, approving, rejecting, or deferring them. Additionally, tools help track changes by verifying that
they are registered, assessed, approved, and communicated to stakeholders. Tools also manage change
requests and the resulting decisions, with additional considerations for communication to assist the
change control board (CCB) in their duties and to distribute decisions to the appropriate stakeholders.
Checklists. A checklist is a list of items, actions, or points to be considered. Checklists are often used
as reminders and are developed based on historical information and knowledge accumulated from
similar projects and other sources of information. Using checklists is an effective way to capture
lessons learned from similar completed projects, listing specific individual project risks that have
occurred previously and that may be relevant to the current project.
The organization may maintain checklists based on completed projects or use generic checklists from
the industry. While a checklist may be quick and simple to use, it is impossible to build an exhaustive
one. The project team should also explore items that do not appear on the checklist. Additionally,
the checklist should be reviewed from time to time to update new information as well as remove or
archive obsolete information. Checklists can also serve as an effective way to ensure that a project
or task is ready to start; such a checklist is also called “definition of ready” or “full kit,” and can be
particularly useful in minimizing rework.
Coaching and mentoring. Coaching provides guidance and helps people (e.g., a project team
member or a stakeholder) to find a solution to a specific problem on their own by asking the right
questions. Mentoring is serving as a counselor, guide, or mentor by sharing knowledge, skills, or
experience with a person who has to develop their own knowledge or skills. Both coaching and
mentoring include one-to-one conversations. However, coaching is more related to achieving specific
goals, while mentoring is a more long-term, ongoing relationship-building practice.
Colocation. Colocation is an organizational placement strategy where the project team members are
physically located close to one another in order to improve communication, working relationships,
and productivity.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.