71
Section 4 – Project Life Cycles
may be required. In this context, planning can follow a progressive, iterative, or rolling wave approach
according to the project phase or life cycle approach.
Moreover, as project changes are encountered, update planning may be required at any appropriate
moment of a project phase. This ongoing refinement of the project management plan is called
progressive elaboration, indicating that planning is an iterative or ongoing activity. Highly predictive
approaches tend to front-load their planning, although plan updates and refinements throughout the
project life cycle are not uncommon. In contrast, highly iterative approaches tend to perform some
brief, high-level planning up front—sometimes called “roadmapping”—typically followed by a more
consistent level of frequent planning and replanning throughout the project life cycle.
The key benefit of this Focus Area is to define the course of action for successfully completing the
project or phase.
When the initial planning effort is complete, the collection of knowledge and artifacts describing the
course of action is often referred to as the project management plan. In some organizations, that
plan is submitted for formal approval and used as the authoritative reference for how the project will
be managed.
Once the project management team is oriented to—and confident with—the course of action, they
are ready to begin executing.
2
Project Boundaries
Business
Documents
Deliverables
Project Records
End
Users
Organizational
Process Assets
Sponsor
Monitoring and
Controlling Processes
Planning
Processes
Executing
Processes
Initiating
Processes
Closing
Processes
Figure 4-12. Project Boundaries
2 Note that many project teams consider a simple, high-level roadmapping exercise as sufficient
for the initial planning, especially in environments where the scope is expected to change
significantly. As a result, the project team may consider a robust analysis of scope/schedule/
cost trade-offs to be effectively useless; however, some discussion on how sensitive the project’s
value proposition is to schedule durations or specific dates can often be crucial, as can any
sensitivity to exceeding an investment–cost threshold.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.