138
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Risk report. The risk report presents information on sources of overall project risk, together with
summary information on identified individual project risks. The risk report is developed progressively
throughout the risk processes. The risk report may include the results of the following processes as
these processes are completed:
⚫
Perform Risk Analysis,
⚫ Plan Risk Responses,
⚫ Implement Risk Responses, and
⚫ Monitor Risks.
When the Identify Risks process is completed, information in the risk report may include but is not
limited to the following:
⚫
Sources of overall project risk, indicating which are the most important drivers of overall
project risk exposure; and
⚫ Summary information on identifie d individual project risks, such as number of identified
threats and opportunities, distribution of risks across risk categories, metrics and trends, etc.
Additional information may be included in the risk report, depending on the reporting requirements
specified in the risk management plan.
Schedule baseline. The schedule baseline is the approved version of a schedule model that can be
changed using formal change control procedures and is used as the basis for comparison to actual
results. The schedule baseline is accepted and approved by the appropriate stakeholders as the
baseline for the schedule, with baseline start dates and baseline finish dates. During monitoring and
controlling, the approved baseline dates are compared to the actual start and finish dates to determine
if variances have occurred. The schedule baseline is a component of the project management plan.
Schedule baseline updates. The schedule baseline updates refer to the modifications made to
the project’s original schedule baseline, which is the approved timeline for the project’s tasks and
milestones. These updates are necessary when significant changes occur that affect the project’s
timing and should be formally integrated into the plan.
Schedule data. The schedule data for the project schedule model is the collection of information
for describing and controlling the schedule. The schedule data includes, at a minimum, the schedule
milestones, schedule activities, activity attributes, and documentation of all identified assumptions
and constraints. The amount of additional data varies by application area. Information frequently
supplied as supporting detail includes but is not limited to the following:
⚫
Resource requirements by time period, often in the form of a resource histogram;
⚫ Alternative schedules, such as best case or worst case, not-resource-leveled or resource-
leveled, or with or without imposed dates; and
⚫ Applied schedule reserves.
Schedule data may also include items such as resource histograms, cash flow projections, order and
delivery schedules, or other relevant information.
Schedule forecasts. Schedule forecasts are estimates or predictions of conditions and events in the
project’s future based on information and knowledge available at the time the schedule is calculated.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.