66
Adaptive
Predictive
Adaptive
Predictive
Adaptive
Predictive
Figure 4-9. A Hybrid of Adaptive and Predictive Approaches Used Simultaneously
Figure 4-10. A Largely Predictive Approach With an Adaptive Component
Predictive Predictive Predictive
Adaptive Adaptive Adaptive
⚫ Another approach is to use a combination of adaptive and predictive approaches
throughout the life cycle.
⚫ A small adaptive element within a primarily predictive project is used.
⚫ A largely adaptive approach with a predictive component is used.
Some examples where a hybrid approach may be suitable include the following:
⚫ Construction project with IT integration. A hybrid approach is appropriate during a
construction project (predictive) that involves building a smart building with complex IT
systems that need to be flexible during development (adaptive).
⚫ Healthcare solutions. A hybrid approach is also appropriate during the implementation
of an electronic medical records system in a hospital where certain aspects (infrastructure
setup) are predictive but the development and integration of the user interface may benefit
from an adaptive approach.
The PMI Disciplined Agile
® (DA®) tool kit [4] describes three levels of hybrid approaches commonly
found in projects across industries:
⚫ Hybrid Level 1. A predictive approach is the dominant contributor to the way of working.
Meanwhile, some adaptive elements are leveraged to reduce specific project pain points.
⚫ Hybrid Level 2. At this level, both the predictive and adaptive approaches contribute
significantly to the success of a project.
⚫ Hybrid Level 3. At this point on the spectrum, an adaptive approach becomes the major
contributor to the way of working. Some predictive elements are used to satisfy various
business constraints.
Today, most projects require a hybrid approach, combining elements of both adaptive and predictive
methodologies. Relying solely on one approach—whether adaptive or predictive—is no longer
sufficient to address the diverse challenges and complexities that modern projects present. A hybrid
approach allows for greater flexibility, enabling project teams to adapt to changing conditions while
still maintaining control over predictable aspects of the project.
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.