32
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
2.1.6.9.1 Predictive Approaches
For project closure, the project manager should ensure that all work is completed and that the
objectives are met by reviewing the project management plan. Key activities for administrative
closure in predictive approaches may include the following:
⚫
Satisfying completion or exit criteria. The following steps should be performed when
satisfying the exit criteria in the Close Project or Phase process:
◾ Ensure all documents and deliverables are updated a nd all issues are resolved.
◾ Ensure that the measurable project value was deliver ed, and that there is a plan to
maintain this value as the project is closed and transitioned to operations.
◾ Confirm that deliverables have been delivered and fo rmally accepted by the customer.
◾ Verify that all costs have been charged to the project .
◾ Close project accounts.
◾ Reassign or release project personnel.
◾ Address excess project materials.
◾ Reallocate or release project facilities, equipment, an d other resources.
◾ Prepare final project reports as required by organiza tional policies.
⚫ Contractual agreement completion. The following activities should be verified when
closing out contractual agreements in the Close Project or Phase process:
◾ Confirm formal acceptance of the external source’s w ork.
◾ Finalize any open claims, guarantees, and warranties .
◾ Update records to reflect the final results.
◾ Ensure all invoices due to external sources are paid.
◾ Archive relevant information for future use.
◾ Resolve any disputes that may arise or refer them to  the dispute board.
⚫ Additional closure activities. The following additional closure activities should be
performed in the Close Project or Phase process:
◾ Collect and audit project or phase records.
◾ Assess project success or failure.
◾ Manage knowledge sharing and transfer.
◾ Identify and document lessons learned.
◾ Archive project information for future organizational  use.
◾ Transfer project products, services, or results to the n ext phase or into production/
operations.
◾ Collect suggestions for improving or updating organi zational policies and procedures
and forward them to the appropriate unit.
◾ Measure stakeholder satisfaction.
◾ Verify that all contractual, regulatory, legal, social, an d environmental obligations have
been met.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.