275
time and materials (T&M) contract. A type of contract that is a hybrid contractual arrangement
containing aspects of both cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts.
timebox. A short, fixed period of time in which work is to be completed.
tolerance. The quantified description of acceptable variation for a quality requirement.
triple bottom line. A framework for considering the full cost of doing business by evaluating a
company’s bottom line from the perspective of profit, people, and the planet.
uncertainty. A lack of understanding and awareness of issues, events, path to follow, or solutions to
pursue.
use case. An artifact for describing and exploring how a user interacts with a system to achieve a
specific goal.
validation. The assurance that a product, service, or result meets the needs of the customer and
other identified stakeholders. See also verification.
value. The excess of monetary and nonmonetary benefits over investment that is gained from
achieving the goals of a portfolio, program, or project.
value delivery system. A collection of strategic business activities aimed at building, sustaining, and/
or advancing an organization.
value proposition. The value of a product or service that an organization communicates to its
customers.
vanity metric. A measure that appears to show some result but does not provide useful information
for making decisions.
variance. A quantifiable deviation, departure, or divergence away from a known baseline or
expected value.
variance at completion (VAC). A projection of the amount of budget deficit or surplus, expressed as
the difference between the budget at completion and the estimate at completion. See also budget at
completion (BAC), cost variance (CV), and estimate at completion (EAC).
verification. The evaluation of whether or not a product, service, or result complies with a
regulation, requirement, specification, or imposed condition. See also validation.
vision statement. A summarized, high-level description about the expectations for a product such as
target market, users, major benefits, and what differentiates the product from others in the market.
volatility. The possibility for rapid and unpredictable change.
waste. Activities that consume resources and/or time without adding value.
wideband Delphi. An estimating method in which subject matter experts go through multiple rounds
of producing estimates individually, with a team discussion after each round, until a consensus is
achieved.
work package. The work defined at the lowest level of the work breakdown structure for which cost,
effort, duration, and resources are estimated and managed.
Glossary
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.