204
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
exceed the project manager’s authority. Escalated risks are managed at the portfolio level,
program level, or other relevant part of the organization, but not at the project level. The
project manager determines who should be notified about the threat and communicates
the details to that person or part of the organization. It is important that the ownership of
escalated threats is accepted by the relevant party in the organization. Threats are usually
escalated to the level that matches the objectives that would be affected if the threat
occurred. Escalated threats are not monitored further by the project team after escalation,
although they may be recorded in the risk register for information.
⚫
Avoid. Risk avoidance is when the project team acts to eliminate the threat or protect the
project from its impact. Avoidance may be appropriate for high-priority threats with a high
probability of occurrence and a large negative impact. Avoidance may involve changing
some aspect of the project management plan or changing the objective that is in jeopardy
in order to eliminate the threat entirely, reducing its probability of occurrence to zero. The
risk owner may also take action to isolate the project objectives from the risk’s impact if it
were to occur. Examples of avoidance actions may include removing the cause of a threat,
extending the schedule, changing the project strategy, or reducing scope. Some risks can
be avoided by clarifying requirements, obtaining information, improving communication, or
acquiring expertise.
⚫
Transfer. Risk transference involves shifting ownership of a threat to a third party to
manage the risk and to bear the impact if the threat occurs. Risk transfer often involves
the payment of a risk premium to the party taking on the threat. The risk transfer can be
achieved by a range of actions, which include but are not limited to the use of insurance,
performance bonds, warranties, guarantees, etc. Agreements may be used to transfer
ownership and liability for specified risks to another party.
⚫
Mitigate. In risk mitigation, action is taken to reduce the probability of occurrence and/or
impact of a threat. Early mitigation action is often more effective than trying to repair the
damage after the threat has occurred. Adopting less-complex processes, conducting more
tests, or choosing a more stable seller are examples of mitigation actions. Mitigation may
involve prototype development to reduce the risk of scaling up from a bench-scale model of a
process or product. Where it is not possible to reduce probability, a mitigation response might
reduce the impact by targeting the factors that drive the severity. For example, designing
redundancy into a system may reduce the impact from a failure of the original component.
⚫
Accept. Risk acceptance acknowledges the existence of a threat, but no proactive action is
taken. This strategy may be appropriate for low-priority threats, and it may also be adopted
where it is not possible or cost-effective to address a threat in any other way. Acceptance
can be either active or passive. The most common active acceptance strategy is to establish
a contingency reserve, including amounts of time, money, or resources to handle the threat
if it occurs. Passive acceptance involves no proactive action apart from periodic review of
the threat to ensure that it does not change significantly.
SWOT (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, threats) analysis. SWOT analysis is the analysis
of strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats of an organization, project, or option. For risk
identification, it is used to increase the breadth of identified risks by including internally generated
risks. The technique starts with the identification of strengths and weaknesses of the organization,
focusing on either the project, organization, or the business area in general. SWOT analysis then
identifies any opportunities for the project that may arise from strengths, and any threats resulting
from weaknesses. The analysis also examines the degree to which organizational strengths may
offset threats and determines if weaknesses might hinder opportunities.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.