122
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
⚫ Rules of performance measurement. Earned value management (EVM) rules of
performance measurement are set. For example, the financial management plan may:
◾ Define the points in the WBS at which measurement of control accounts will be
performed;
◾ Establish the EVM techniques (e.g., weighted mileston es, fixed formula, percent
complete, etc.) to be employed; and
◾ Specify tracking methodologies and the EVM comput ation equations for calculating
the projected estimate at completion (EAC) forecasts to provide a validity check on the
bottom-up EAC.
⚫ Reporting formats. The formats and frequency for the various cost reports are defined.
⚫ Additional details. Additional details about financial management activities include but are
not limited to:
◾ Description of strategic funding choices,
◾ Procedure to account for fluctuations in currency exc hange rates, and
◾ Procedure for project cost recording.
Funding proposals. Projects often require dedicated funding efforts either before or after the
projects have started. Additionally, certain phases of a given project may require specific funding
requests to cover approved budgets associated with that phase. In these cases, estimated costs and
reserves are calculated as part of a business value proposition. The value proposition is then used to
request the needed funds from the appropriate internal or external funding source.
Funding strategy. Projects require funding to be successful. Funding can come from sources either
internal or external to the project’s performing organization. Some projects require more than one
approach to secure the needed monies. Any single approach, or combination of approaches, can be
considered a funding strategy. Approaches range from organizational budget transfers to customer
contracts to government or nongovernmental organization (NGO) grants. Common funding strategies
include but are not limited to the following:
⚫
Fixed or reallocated internal budgets. Internally owned assets and employees are
funded by fixed annual departmental budgets and then applied to specific projects as
needed. Alternatively, existing budgets within the organization that have surplus funds
or lower-priority initiatives can be reallocated to the project.
⚫
Lump sum. The entirety of the project’s budget and reserves are allocated all at once.
⚫ Incremental disbursement. Project funds are secured and allocated in multiple
increments, specific to individual phases or key milestones.
⚫ External investment. This strategy involves high-net-worth individual or institutional
investors who are willing to provide capital to early-stage or innovative projects, often in
exchange for interest in long-term ownership or operations.
⚫
Governmental or nongovernmental organization (NGO) grants. Projects may be
partially or fully funded by relevant grants offered by government agencies, NGOs, or
philanthropists that support projects aligning with their specific objectives.
⚫
Crowdfunding. This strategy involves the accumulation of small contributions from a
large number of individuals who are interested in supporting the project or its mission.
This strategy can be particularly effective for projects with strong community appeal.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.