152
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Colocation involves placing many or all of the most active project team members in the same physical
location to enhance their ability to perform as a team. Colocation can be temporary, such as at
strategically important times during the project, or can continue for the entire project. Colocation
strategies may include a team meeting room, common places to post schedules, and other
conveniences that enhance communication and a sense of community.
Communication competence. Communication competence is a combination of tailored
communication skills that considers factors such as clarity of purpose in key messages, effective
relationships and information sharing, and leadership behaviors.
Communication methods. A communication method is a systematic procedure, technique, or
process used to transfer information among project stakeholders.
There are several communication methods that are used to share information among project
stakeholders. These methods are broadly classified as follows:
⚫
Interactive communication. Interactive communication occurs between two or more
parties performing a multidirectional exchange of information in real time. Interactive
communication employs communications artifacts such as meetings, phone calls, instant
messaging, some forms of social media, and videoconferencing.
⚫
Push communication. Push communications are sent or distributed directly to specific
recipients who need to receive the information. This method ensures that the information
is distributed but does not ensure that it reaches or is understood by the intended
audience. Push communication artifacts include letters, memos, reports, emails, faxes,
voicemails, blogs, and press releases.
⚫
Pull communication. Pull communications are used for large, complex information sets
or for large audiences, and require the recipients to access content at their own discretion
subject to security procedures. These methods include web portals, intranet sites,
eLearning courses, lessons learned databases, or knowledge repositories.
Different approaches should be applied to meet the needs of the major forms of communication
defined in the communications management plan:
⚫
Interpersonal communication. Interpersonal communication is information that is
exchanged between individuals, typically face-to-face.
⚫ Small group communication. Small group communications occur within groups of three
to six people.
⚫ Public communication. Public communication occurs when a single speaker, or group of
speakers, addresses a larger audience.
⚫ Mass communication. Mass communication is an approach with minimal connection
between the person or group sending the message and the large, sometimes anonymous,
groups for whom the information is intended.
⚫
Networks and social computing communication. This type of communication approach
supports emerging communication trends of many-to-many, which is often supported by
social computing technology and the media.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.