69
Section 4 – Project Life Cycles
4.4 Delivery Cadence
Based on the selected development approach, projects can have a single delivery, multiple deliveries,
periodic deliveries, or continuous deliveries.
⚫ Single delivery. Projects that have a single delivery produce all outcomes at the end of the
project. For example, a process-reengineering project may not have any deliveries until
near the end of the project when the new process is rolled out.
⚫
Multiple deliveries. Some projects have multiple deliveries. A project may have multiple
components or elaborations delivered at different times throughout the project. For example,
a project to develop a new drug may have multiple deliveries, such as preclinical submissions,
Phase 1 clinical trial results (safety, side effects, optimal dose, and timing), Phase 2 clinical
trial results (effectiveness for 100–300 human volunteers), Phase 3 clinical trial results
(tests efficacy against standard treatments), registration and regulatory approval, and then
launch. In this example, the deliveries are sequential. Some projects have deliveries that are
developed separately rather than sequentially, such as a project to update building security,
as many tasks can be performed in parallel. Deliveries may include physical barriers to entry,
new badges, new key code pads, and so forth. Each of these is a separate delivery, but few,
if any of them, need to follow a specific order. In all cases, however, the deliveries should be
concluded in order to meet or exceed the target business objectives.
⚫
Periodic deliveries. Commonly used in adaptive approaches, periodic deliveries are like
multiple deliveries but are on a regular and fixed delivery schedule such as monthly or
semimonthly. A new software application may have internal deliveries every 2 weeks and
then periodically release the deliveries into the market.
⚫
Continuous delivery. Continuous delivery is the practice of incrementally delivering
value to production on an ongoing basis. This approach focuses on delivering tested and
validated product increments, ensuring they are production-ready at all times. By leveraging
automation and maintaining a continuous flow from backlog prioritization through iterative
development and testing, teams can deploy frequently and efficiently while minimizing
risks. Continuous delivery fosters responsiveness to customer feedback and evolving
market trends, allowing organizations to iterate quickly and provide regular updates without
introducing unnecessary deployment overheads.
4.5 Project Management Focus Areas
This standard describes the fundamental actions that take place over the course of any project,
regardless of whether the project follows a predictive, adaptive, or hybrid approach. These project
management actions are grouped into five Project Management Focus Areas:
⚫
Initiating,
⚫ Planning,
⚫ Executing,
⚫ Monitoring and Controlling, and
⚫ Closing.
These Focus Areas are implemented using formal processes, informal practices, or other policies,
procedures, or techniques. The areas can involve iterative, continuous, and/or overlapping actions
that are performed when planned or needed during the project and/or in each phase of the project.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.