12
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Figure 2-1. Structured Versus Self-Governed Projects
Under a structured governance model, project governance is often composed of an executive project
sponsor, project management office (PMO) leader, some type of governance board, and a project
manager who can provide project-level oversight while managing the integration of all performance
domains for that project. Under a self-governance model, instead of a PMO leader, there may be a
group of individual project managers that is collectively accountable for optimizing performance.
There are proven and effective self-governance models where project management responsibilities
are distributed among the team, rather than assigned to a single individual holding a formal project
management title.
A key challenge in self-governance models is the potential for fragmented decision-making, where
decision-makers may act in conflicting ways, resulting in a lack of direction or accountability. To
address this, it is essential to establish clear, measurable common objectives supported by leading
indicators and effective feedback mechanisms. These tools enable self-governed teams to make
informed decisions and align their efforts toward shared goals. Notably, structured governance
models emphasize similar principles, as detailed in Section 2.1.3.
In a structured governance model, which is often used on more predictive projects, one or
more internal or external constituents governs project performance according to organizational
requirements. In a self-governing model, which is often used on more adaptive projects, the team
ensures the project is delivering value. Governance models should be designed to fit the specific
needs of the project within the particular organizational context in which value is being delivered.
Structured
Governance Self-Governance
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.