79
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
2.6 Resources Performance Domain
The Resources performance domain refers to how effectively and efficiently a project team plans
for and utilizes its available resources. This performance domain encompasses both human
resources (the project team itself) and physical or virtual resources (equipment, materials,
supplies, facilities, infrastructure, software, testing environments, licenses, services, information, or
documents). The Resources performance domain also covers resource availability, utilization, and
maintenance.
2.6.1 Key Concepts
The following key concepts support effective practices in the Resources performance domain. The
performance domain delves into the key concepts of effectively and efficiently applying the resources
at the project manager’s disposal. Different skills and competencies are needed to manage team
resources versus physical or virtual resources. This section explores how to oversee human, physical,
or virtual resources to foster optimal project outcomes.
⚫
Project manager. The project manager, as a leader of the project team, is responsible
for team formation and operation as an effective group. Project managers should invest
suitable effort in acquiring, managing, motivating, and empowering the project team.
Additionally, project managers should be aware of different aspects that influence the team
such as team environment, geographical locations of team members, communications
among stakeholders, organizational change management, internal and external politics,
cultural issues and organizational uniqueness, and other factors that may alter project
performance. Proactively developing team skills and competencies while enhancing team
satisfaction and motivation also falls under a project manager’s responsibility, in addition to
awareness of professional and ethical behavior.
⚫
Resource manager. The resource manager is an individual with management authority
over one or more resources. The project team may or may not have direct control over
resource selection because of collective bargaining agreements, use of subcontractor
personnel, a matrix environment, internal or external reporting relationships, or other
reasons. The resources needed for a project can be internal or external to the project-
performing organization. Internal resources are acquired (assigned) from functional or
resource managers. External resources are obtained through partnerships, joint ventures,
or procurement processes. For further details, see Appendix X4 on Procurement.
⚫
Human resources (project team members). Human resources consist of individuals
with assigned roles and responsibilities who work collectively to achieve a shared project
goal within the project team. The involvement of all team members in project planning
and decision-making is also beneficial. Project team members add their expertise to the
process, strengthening their commitment to the project. Typically, project team members
are guided by the top-down leadership of one or several individuals (see Section 5 on Tools
and Techniques—centralized management and leadership). Project team members may
also self-organize, and decision-making may be decentralized (see Section 5 on Tools and
Techniques—distributed management and leadership).
⚫
Physical, material, or virtual resources.  These resources refer to any resource that
is not a person. These resources may include equipment, materials, supplies, facilities,
infrastructure, software, testing environments, licenses, services, and anything else
needed for successful and efficient project completion. Organizations should have
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.