247
Appendix X4
Factors to consider in the make-or-buy decision include the organization’s current resource
allocation, their skills and abilities, the need for specialized expertise, the desire to avoid expanding
permanent employment obligations, and the need for independent expertise. This decision process
also includes evaluating the risks involved with each make-or-buy decision.
Make-or-buy analysis may use payback period, return on investment (ROI), internal rate of return
(IRR), discounted cash flow, net present value (NPV), cost-benefit analysis, or other techniques in
order to decide whether to include something as part of the project or purchase it externally.
X4.4 Procurement Strategy
Once the make-or-buy analysis is complete and the decision is made to acquire from outside the
project, a procurement strategy should be identified. The objective of the procurement strategy
is to determine the project delivery method, the type of legally binding agreement(s), and how
the procurement will advance through the procurement phases. The following factors should be
considered:
⚫
Delivery methods. Delivery methods are different for professional services versus
construction projects.
⚫
For professional services, delivery methods include buyer/services provider with no
subcontracting, buyer/services provider with subcontracting allowed, joint venture between
buyer and services provider, and buyer/services provider acts as the representative.
⚫
For industrial, integration, or build-out supply projects, project delivery methods
include turnkey, design-build (DB), design-bid-build (DBB), design-build-operate (DBO),
build-own-operate-transfer (BOOT), and others.
⚫
Integrated project delivery (IPD) contracts represent a more formalized and structured
approach to collaborative project delivery. These contracts are typically used in complex
construction projects where early involvement of all parties can significantly benefit the
project outcome. Key characteristics of IPD contracts may include the following:
◾
Multiparty agreement involving all key stakeholders (owner, designer, contractor);
◾ Shared risks and rewards based on project outcomes;
◾ Early involvement of key participants for better integration of expertise;
◾ Collaborative decision-making leveraging the combined expertise of all parties; and
◾ Open-book accounting for financial transparency.
⚫ Procurement phases. The procurement strategy may also include information on
procurement phases. Incorporating digital tools like procurement management software
can streamline phase transitions and help ensure real-time tracking of milestones.
Information on procurement phases may include the following:
◾
Sequencing or phasing of the procurement, a description of each phase, and the
specific objectives of each phase;
◾ Procurement performance indicators and milestones to be used in monitoring;
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.