48
3.6.2 Principle in Action
To provide an example of the Be an Accountable Leader principle, consider a government
megaproject that involves multiple vendors. In the project, a conflict arises among the vendor teams
over previously arranged shift rotations. A conventional approach would focus on enforcing the
contractually agreed-upon labor policies and holding each vendor accountable for resolving the
discontent among their staff.
In contrast, applying this principle could involve holding a series of cross-vendor discussions to
explore the root cause of the issue and identify acceptable adjustments to the shift rotations. This
collaborative approach not only resolves the conflict but also removes friction that could undermine
quality and productivity, fostering a more cohesive and motivated project team.
3.6.3 Connected Performance Domains
The principle of Be an Accountable Leader supports many project management performance
domains and can enhance the effectiveness of the project manager when well applied, such as with
the following:
⚫
Governance. In the Governance performance domain, accountable leadership can ensure
that decisions are made transparently and ethically. Leaders take ownership of the project’s
direction and outcomes, fostering trust and ensuring that governance structures are upheld.
⚫
Scope. Every project faces difficult decisions around what scope to include or exclude.
Strong leadership should confront and resolve scope disagreements in a way that unites
stakeholders on the project’s value proposition.
⚫
Schedule. Reliable project schedules are the result of collaborative discussions among the
project team, senior management, and other stakeholders. Accountable leadership should
ensure that those discussions include the appropriate parties and that there is alignment
on schedule activities and artifacts.
⚫
Finance. Every project involves financial considerations. Accountable leadership neither
ignores nor carelessly addresses such considerations. Instead, this principle encourages
practitioners to manage pressures that come when costs are scrutinized, reserves are
applied, or other financial challenges arise.
⚫
Stakeholders. An effective leader is able to engage and influence stakeholders and
sponsors to secure and maintain the support that is needed for the project.
⚫
Resources. Self-awareness helps to build relationships and foster human interactions to
obtain better results. An effective leader manages resources with responsibility and integrity.
⚫ Risk. An effective leader can adapt and be flexible to opportunities or threats that a project
team may face. Effective leaders demonstrate integrity and accountability to help ensure that
risk is managed in a way that protects and enhances the project’s overall value proposition.
3.7 Integrate Sustainability Within All Project Areas
The principle of Integrate Sustainability Within All Project Areas involves meeting present needs
without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs (see Figure 3-6). This
principle may involve adopting technology responsibly to foster a better future, while systematically
identifying and mitigating any adverse impacts on the organization, community, and environment.
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.