11
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
⚫ Executing. Project work can benefit from the shared understanding of its broader goals,
such as informing technical decisions or motivating team members. This understanding can
be seen in the Manage Project Execution and Manage Project Knowledge processes.
⚫ Monitoring and Controlling. As projects proceed, they encounter change. Effective project
management requires appropriate adaptations to those changes. The Monitor and Control
Project Performance process provides a way to govern effective changes toward value
creation.
⚫
Closing. All projects and project phases eventually end. They can achieve their desired
impact as originally planned, or experience closure earlier or later than expected.
Projects experience any number of governance scenarios during their life cycle. In each case, the
overarching value proposition should be the primary factor in project decisions. Table 2-2 illustrates
several such scenarios.
Several management disciplines relate to the governance of project value and impact. These
include but are not limited to change management, benefits realization, value management, and
revenue management. Tools and techniques from these disciplines are often incorporated into the
Governance performance domain.
2.1.2 Project Governance Models
Applying the right governance model to a project is an important decision, because too much
governance risks wasting resources, while too little may lead to strategic alignment and project
performance issues. The need to apply optimum governance varies with the implementation approach
and organizational guidelines. The right balance should be made for strategic alignment, compliance,
and delivering value. For these reasons, governance models can be applied at the organizational,
portfolio, program, or project level, depending upon the approach and complexity (see Figure 2-1).
Table 2-2. Sampling of Common Project Governance Scenarios
Governance Scenario Description
Project initiation A new project or phase is deemed to be a worthwhile venture; resources and
effort are expended to launch the undertaking
Project replanning A revision to any element of the project management plan that requires intentional
review by the project management team, sponsors, or senior management
Project expansion or
contraction
A project or phase undergoes change to its schedule, budget, quality thresholds,
compliance, or other constraints as a means to preserve the original value proposi-
tion or capture a new one
Early termination for
positive cause
A project or phase is closed before exhausting its planned schedule and/or bud-
get because the desired value impact has been achieved
Early termination for
negative cause
A project or phase is closed before exhausting its planned schedule and/or bud-
get because the desired value impact is no longer achievable
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.