24
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
The Manage Quality Assurance process implements a set of planned and systematic acts and processes
defined within the project’s quality management plan that can help to achieve the following:
⚫ Build confidence that a future output will be completed in a manner that meets the
specified requirements and expectations through quality assurance tools and techniques
such as quality audits and failure analysis;
⚫
Improve the efficiency and effectiveness of processes and activities to achieve better results
and performance and enhance stakeholder satisfaction; and
⚫ Ensure the project is governed properly, and thus increase the likelihood that it will meet or
exceed stakeholder expectations.
In agile or adaptive projects, quality assurance can be performed formally or informally, based on the
context. In predictive projects, quality assurance is usually performed in a formal capacity, under the
expectation that strong process quality will minimize variances in an otherwise stable project.
Quality assurance tasks may be performed by the project management team, an external entity, or both.
2.1.6.6 Manage Project Knowledge
Manage Project Knowledge is the process of using existing knowledge and creating new knowledge
to achieve the project’s objectives and contribute to organizational learning (see Figure 2-8). Key
benefits of this process include the following:
⚫
Using prior organizational knowledge to produce or improve the project outcome, and
⚫ Collecting new knowledge created by the project to support organizational operations and
future projects or phases.
Knowledge management is concerned with managing both explicit and tacit knowledge for two
purposes: reusing existing knowledge and creating new knowledge. The key activities that underpin
both purposes are knowledge sharing and integration (incorporating knowledge from different
domains, contextual knowledge, and project management knowledge).
Managing projects requires both explicit and tacit knowledge:
⚫
Explicit knowledge. Explicit knowledge is formal and systematic; it is the type of knowledge
that can be readily codified using words, pictures, or numbers. This type of knowledge
includes manuals, procedures, and documented processes. Explicit knowledge is easily
communicated and shared through information management tools such as databases,
registers, and web searches. The following are key characteristics of explicit knowledge:
◾ Codifiable. Can be documented in words, pictures, or numbers.
◾ Formal and systematic. Structured and organized in a way that is easy to understand.
◾ Easily communicated. Can be shared through manuals, procedures, and other
documentation.
⚫ Tacit knowledge. Tacit knowledge is information that is embedded in a person’s mind and
is highly personal. Tacit knowledge is difficult to articulate because it consists of technical
skills, experiences, insights, and practical knowledge. Tacit knowledge is challenging to
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.