59
Section 4 – Project Life Cycles
⚫ Stakeholder influence on change. In some scenarios, the ability of stakeholders to
influence the project’s scope—increasing value without significantly impacting cost and
schedule—is highest at the start of the project or phase and decreases as the project
progresses toward completion. In other cases, stakeholders are encouraged to participate
actively in the execution process, ensuring that value has been delivered according to
their expectations and the organization’s best interest. Consistent feedback leads to the
possibility of detecting risks and their impacts at an earlier stage (see Figure 4-1).
4.2 Project Development Approaches
A development approach is the means used to create and evolve a product, service, or result
during the project life cycle. Note that the term “development approach” is separate from the term
“development phase of the project.” The development approach refers to the method used to create
and evolve the product, service, or result during the project life cycle, such as predictive, adaptive, or
hybrid methods. The development approach defines how the project will be managed and executed.
Conversely, the development phase of the project is a specific stage within the project life cycle
where both the actual creation and testing of deliverables occur. This stage involves detailed work to
produce the project’s outputs. There are different development approaches, and different industries
may use different terms to refer to them.
Three commonly used approaches are predictive, adaptive, and hybrid. These approaches are often
viewed as a spectrum, from the predictive approach on one end of the spectrum to the adaptive
approach on the other end. The hybrid approach is usually intended as a mix of predictive and
adaptive approaches (see Figure 4-2).
Risk and
uncertainty
Cost of
changes
Project Time
Low
High
Degree
Figure 4-1. Impact of Variables Over Time
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.