159
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
⚫ Prevention costs. Costs related to the prevention of poor quality in products, deliverables,
or services of the specific project.
⚫ Appraisal costs. Costs related to evaluating, measuring, auditing, and testing products,
deliverables, or services of a specific project.
⚫ Failure costs (internal/external). Costs related to nonconformance of products,
deliverables, or services based on the needs or expectations of the stakeholders.
The optimal CoQ is one that reflects the appropriate balance for investing in the cost of prevention
and appraisal to avoid failure costs. Models show that there is an optimal quality cost for projects,
where investing in additional prevention/appraisal costs is neither beneficial nor cost-effective.
Critical chain method. A schedule method that allows the project team to place buffers on any
project schedule path to account for limited resources and project uncertainties. See also critical
chain project management (CCPM).
Critical chain project management (CCPM). A set of techniques used to promote fast execution
and high due-date performance by aggregating task-level (or sprint-level) variability to a project
buffer, and then allocating the project buffer only when and where needed in order to protect the
project due date. While the concept of a project reserve or contingency is similar, the difference is
that a critical chain buffer is in lieu of task-level or sprint-level buffers, and not in addition to them.
CCPM uses nearly identical scheduling logic as the critical path method (CPM), as both are based on
Cost of Conformance Cost of Nonconformance
Prevention Costs
(Build a quality product)
• Training
• Document processes
• Equipment
• Time to do it right
Appraisal Costs
(Assess the quality)
• Testing
• Destructive testing loss
• Inspections
Money spent during the project
to avoid failures
Internal Failure Costs
(Failures found by the project)
• Rework
• Scrap
External Failure Costs
(Failures found by the customer)
• Liabilities
• Warranty work
• Lost business
Money spent during and after
the project because of failures
Figure 5-3. Cost of Quality
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.