18
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
The project charter forms a partnership between the performing and requesting organizations. The
approved business case, or similar item, justifies the reason behind initiating the project and the
expected value.
For cross-corporate projects with two or more organizations involved, contracts are used to establish
an agreement among the organizations. Project charters are then used inside the organizations
to create internal agreements to ensure fulfillment of contractual obligations, which are mostly
deliveries made by contractors, with payments made by customers. The approved project charter
formally initiates the project, identifying and assigning a project manager as early as possible, ideally
during the development of the charter and always before planning begins. The project charter can be
developed by the sponsor or the project manager in collaboration with the initiating entity, allowing
the project manager to gain a better understanding of the project’s purpose, objectives, and expected
benefits. This understanding facilitates efficient resource allocation to project activities. The project
charter grants the project manager the authority to support the project.
In adaptive approaches, project charters are often designed to be more flexible, ranging from
minimally impactful worksheets or concise vision statements to moderately detailed documents.
These charters are tailored to the iterative and incremental nature of adaptive projects, providing
just enough structure to guide the team while allowing for evolving requirements and priorities. An
adaptive project charter typically focuses on answering a subset or all of the following key questions:
⚫
Why is the project being undertaken?
⚫ Who will be engaged?
⚫ What is this project about?
⚫ Where will it occur?
⚫ When will it start and end?
⚫ How will it be carried out?
⚫ Who is the customer?
By emphasizing clarity and flexibility, adaptive project charters can ensure alignment among
stakeholders while maintaining the ability to adapt to changes throughout the project’s life cycle.
2.1.6.2 Integrate and Align Project Plans
The Integrate and Align Project Plans process involves integrating, aligning, and coordinating all plan
components and consolidating them into a unified project management plan. The primary benefit of
this process is the creation of a thorough document outlining the basis for the various aspects of all
project activities and how they will be executed. This process is typically conducted once or at specific
intervals during the project.
The project management plan specifies how the project will be executed, monitored and controlled,
and closed. Its content varies depending on the project’s application context and complexity. The plan
can be either high level or detailed, tailored to the project’s specific needs. This plan should also be
adaptable enough to respond to the dynamic project environment—ideally, by following a progressive
elaboration approach—ensuring that more accurate information is available as the project progresses.
The output of this process should be documented and communicated to key project stakeholders.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.