20
the project. The OPAs also include the organization’s lessons learned from previous projects and
historical information, as well as lessons from previous work carried out. The OPAs are inputs to
many project management processes and may include completed schedules, risk data, and earned
value data. Since OPAs are internal to the organization, the project team members may be able to
update and add to the OPAs as necessary throughout the project. They may be grouped into two
categories:
⚫
Policies, processes, and procedures. Generally, these assets are not updated as part of
the work required to achieve the outcomes of the project and are usually established by
the project management office (PMO) or another function outside of the project (for more
details about PMOs, see Appendix X2). These assets can be updated only by following the
appropriate organizational policies. Some organizations encourage project teams to tailor
templates, life cycles, and checklists for the project. In these cases, the project team should
tailor those assets according to the needs of the project.
⚫
Organizational knowledge repositories. These assets are updated throughout the project
with project information. For example, information on financial performance, lessons
learned, performance metrics, and issues and defects are continually updated throughout
the project.
2.2.3 Policies, Processes, and Procedures
The organization’s policies, processes, and procedures for conducting project work include but are
not limited to the following:
⚫
Tailoring guidelines and criteria for the organization’s set of standard processes and
procedures to satisfy the specific needs of the project;
⚫ Product and project life cycles as well as methods and procedures (e.g., project
management methods, estimation metrics, process audits, improvement targets, checklists,
and standardized process definitions for use in the organization);
⚫
Templates (e.g., project management plans, project documents, project registers, report
formats, contract templates, risk categories, risk statement templates, risk register
templates, probability and impact definitions, probability and impact matrices, and
stakeholder register templates);
⚫
Preapproved supplier lists, contract templates (e.g., fixed-price, cost-reimbursable, and time
and materials [T&M] contracts), and proposal evaluation criteria;
⚫ Progress monitoring processes and procedures to meet or exceed the project’s value
proposition, reoptimizing the project baseline when advantageous;
⚫ Change control procedures;
⚫ Traceability matrices;
⚫ Issue and defect management processes;
⚫ Resource availability control and assignment management policies;
⚫ Processes for prioritizing, approving, and issuing work authorizations;
⚫ Standardized guidelines, work instructions, and performance measurement procedures
and guidelines;
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.