67
Section 4 – Project Life Cycles
Figure 4-11. A Largely Adaptive Approach With a Predictive Component
Adaptive Adaptive Adaptive
Predictive Predictive Predictive
4.3 Considerations for a Development Approach Selection
There are several factors that influence the selection of a development approach. The factors can
be divided into categories of the deliverables, the project, and the organization. The following
subsections describe the variables associated with each category. The diversity of factors often
implies that several development approaches may be used within the same projects for different
deliverables.
4.3.1 Deliverables
There are many variables associated with project deliverables that can influence the choice of
development approach. The following list outlines some of the variables to consider when selecting
the development approach:
⚫
Degree of innovation. When new or complex technological and/or business model
innovation is needed, an adaptive approach may be optimal.
⚫ Requirements certainty. When the requirements are well known and straightforward to
define, a predictive approach may be optimal.
⚫ Degree of scope stability. This variable refers to the degree to which the project scope is
stable throughout the project execution. In general, the less stable the scope is, the more
optimal it will be to apply an adaptive approach.
⚫
Ease of change. If the nature of the deliverable makes it difficult or costly to manage and
incorporate changes, then a predictive approach may be optimal.
⚫
Delivery options. The nature of the deliverables and whether they can be delivered in
components or progressively elaborated can influence the development approach. More
details can be found in Section 4.4 on delivery cadence.
⚫
Risk. Adaptive approaches may be helpful to manage risk and uncertainty.
⚫ Safety requirements. Products that have rigorous safety requirements often use a
predictive approach as there is a need for significant up-front planning to ensure safety
compliance.
⚫
Feedback. If there is significant value likely to be realized from frequent feedback from the
end users and stakeholders, an adaptive approach may be optimal.
⚫ Regulations. Environments that have significant regulatory oversight may use a predictive
approach due to the required processes, documentation, and demonstration needs.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.