9
Section 1 – Introduction
Additionally, project governance helps prioritize initiatives and allocate resources to support strategic
objectives. For instance, a steering committee in a product launch project may oversee milestones,
enforce quality standards, and resolve escalated issues. Further details on the Governance
performance domain are discussed in the second part of this publication (see Section 2.1 of A Guide
to the Project Management Body of Knowledge [PMBOK
® Guide]) [2].
In summary, while organizational governance provides the overall direction and control for the entire
organization, project governance focuses on the specific processes and frameworks that should be
implemented to manage individual projects effectively. Both are essential for ensuring that projects
contribute to the organization’s strategic objectives and are executed successfully.
1.3.2.1 Project Initiation
Organizational leaders authorize projects in response to organizational strategic-objective realization
and stakeholder needs. Projects enable organizations to make necessary changes to address these
factors. The factors can be categorized into several areas, including the following:
⚫
Meeting regulatory, legal, or social requirements;
⚫ Satisfying stakeholder requests or needs;
⚫ Implementing or changing business or technological strategies; and
⚫ Creating, improving, or fixing products, processes, organizations, or services.
By responding to these factors, leaders can enhance an organization’s viability. Projects provide the
means to make these changes and should ultimately link to the organization’s strategic objectives
and business value.
1.3.3 Operations and Project Management
Operations management focuses on the efficient, effective production of products and/or services.
Additionally, operations management helps ensure that business operations are conducted
efficiently and effectively by utilizing optimal resources to meet customer demands and deliver value.
As such, operations management is concerned with managing processes that transform inputs (e.g.,
materials, components, energy, and labor) into outputs (e.g., products, goods, services, and/or other
results). Operations management is distinct from formal project management as outlined in this
standard.
Changes in business or organizational operations can be the focus of a project, particularly when
significant changes are required due to new products or service delivery offerings. Ongoing
operations are outside of the scope of a project. However, there are intersecting points where the
two areas cross. For example, projects can intersect with operations at various points during a
product life cycle, such as the following:
⚫
When developing new products or services, upgrading offerings, or expanding outputs;
⚫ While improving product or service delivery operations or their development process;
⚫ At the end of the product life cycle; and
⚫ At each closeout phase or iteration.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.