124
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
The OPAs include any artifact, practice, or knowledge from any or all of the performing organizations
involved in the project that can be used to execute or govern the project. The OPAs also include
the organization’s lessons learned from previous projects and historical information. Additionally,
OPAs may include completed schedules, risk data, and earned value data. The OPAs are inputs to
many project management processes. Since OPAs are internal to the organization, the project team
members may be able to update and add to them as necessary throughout the project. A project’s
OPAs may be grouped into two categories:
⚫
Processes, documents, and templates. Generally, assets in this category are not updated
as part of the project work. Processes, documents, and templates are usually established
by the project management office (PMO) or another function outside of the project. These
assets can be updated only by following the appropriate organizational policies associated
with updating them. Some organizations encourage the team to tailor templates, life cycles,
and checklists for the project. In these instances, the project management team should
tailor those assets to meet the needs of the project.
⚫
Organizational knowledge repositories. Assets in this category are updated throughout
the project with project information. For example, information on financial performance,
lessons learned, performance metrics and issues, and defects are continually updated
throughout the project.
Organizational process asset (OPA) updates. Any OPA can be updated as a result of a process.
Updates include plans, processes, and knowledge repositories specific to and used by the performing
organization.
Outputs from other processes. Outputs from other processes are integrated to create the project
management plan. Subsidiary plans and baselines that are outputs from other processes are inputs
to this process. In addition, changes to these documents may necessitate updates to the project
management plan.
Performance measurement baseline (PMB). The performance measurement baseline includes the
integrated scope, schedule, and cost baselines used for comparison to manage, measure, and control
project execution.
Physical or virtual resource assignments. The physical and virtual resource assignments document
the materials, equipment, supplies, locations, and other physical resources, as well as digital tools,
remote team members, and virtual assets that will be utilized during the project. This documentation
describes the expected resource utilization and whether the resource is internal to the organization,
outsourced, or remotely engaged. Physical and virtual resource assignments are dynamic and subject to
change due to availability, project needs, organizational requirements, the environment, or other factors.
Procurement documentation. Procurement documentation includes all of the documents used in
signing, executing, and closing an agreement. Procurement documentation may include documents
predating the project. This documentation contains the complete supporting records for administration of
the procurement processes. Procurement documentation includes the statement of work (SOW), payment
information, contractor work performance information, plans, drawings, and other correspondence.
Procurement management plan. The procurement management plan is a component of the
program or project management plan that describes how a team will acquire goods and services
from outside of the performing organization.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.