211
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
slippages and warns the project manager in advance that there may be problems later in the
schedule if established trends persist. This information is made available early enough in the project
timeline to give the project team time to analyze and correct any anomalies. The results of trend
analysis can be used to recommend preventive actions if necessary.
Tuckman ladder. One of the models used to describe team development is the Tuckman ladder,
which includes five stages of development that teams may go through. Although it is common for
these stages to occur in order, it is not uncommon for a team to get stuck in a particular stage or
regress to an earlier stage. Projects with team members who worked together in the past may also
skip a stage.
⚫
Forming. This phase is where the team members meet and learn about the project and
their formal roles and responsibilities. Team members tend to be independent and not as
open in this phase.
⚫
Storming. During this phase, the team begins to address the project work, technical
decisions, and the project management approach. If team members are not
collaborative or open to differing ideas and perspectives, the environment can become
counterproductive.
⚫
Norming. In this phase, team members begin to work together and adjust their work habits
and behaviors to support the team. The team members learn to trust one another.
⚫ Performing. Teams that reach the performing stage function as a well-organized unit. They
are interdependent and work through issues smoothly and effectively.
⚫ Adjourning. In this phase, the team completes the work and moves on from the project.
This typically occurs when staff is released from the project as deliverables are completed.
The duration of a particular stage depends upon team dynamics, team size, and team leadership. The
project management team should have a good understanding of team dynamics to move the team
members through all stages in an effective manner.
Value stream mapping. Value stream mapping is a display of the critical steps in a process and
the time taken in each step to identify waste. Value stream mapping is a Lean technique used to
document, analyze, and improve the flow of information or materials required to produce a product
or service for a customer. A value stream begins, ends, and hopefully continues with a customer.
A value stream is the set of activities that takes place to add value for customers, from the initial
request through realization of value by the customers.
Variance analysis.  Variance analysis is a technique for determining the cause and degree of
difference between the baseline and actual performance. The technique uses mathematical
models to forecast future outcomes based on historical results. Variance analysis reviews the
differences (or variances) between planned and actual performance. This analysis can include
duration estimates, cost estimates, resource utilization, resource rates, technical performance, and
other metrics. Variance analysis reviews the variances from an integrated perspective considering
cost, time, technical, and resource variances in relation to one another to get an overall view of
variance on the project. This review allows for the appropriate preventive or corrective actions to be
initiated.
Velocity. Velocity is a measure of a team’s productivity rate at which the deliverables are produced,
validated, and accepted within a predefined interval.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.