120
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
EEFs internal to the organization:
⚫ Organizational culture, structure, and governance. Examples include vision, mission,
values, beliefs, cultural norms, leadership style, hierarchy and authority relationships,
organizational style, ethics, codes of conduct, policies, and procedures.
⚫ Geographic distribution of facilities and resources. Examples include factory locations
and virtual teams.
⚫ Infrastructure. Examples include existing facilities, equipment, organizational
telecommunications channels, information technology hardware, availability, and capacity.
⚫ Information technology software. Examples include scheduling software tools,
configuration management systems, web interfaces to other online automated systems,
and work authorization systems.
⚫
Resource availability. Examples include contracting and purchasing constraints, approved
providers and subcontractors, and collaboration agreements.
⚫ Employee capability. Examples include existing human resources expertise, skills,
competencies, and specialized knowledge.
EEFs external to the organization:
⚫
Marketplace conditions. Examples include competitors, market share, brand recognition,
and trademarks.
⚫ Social and cultural influences and issues. Examples include political climate, codes of
conduct, ethics, and perceptions.
⚫ Legal restrictions. Examples include country or local laws and regulations related to
security, data protection, business conduct, employment, and procurement.
⚫ Commercial databases. Examples include benchmarking results, standardized cost
estimating data, industry risk study information, and risk databases.
⚫
Academic research. Examples include industry studies, publications, and benchmarking
results.
⚫
Government or industry standards. Examples include regulatory agency regulations and
standards related to products, production, environment, quality, and workmanship.
⚫ Financial considerations. Examples include currency exchange rates, interest rates,
inflation rates, tariffs, and geographic location.
⚫ Physical environmental elements. Examples include working conditions and weather
constraints.
Enterprise environmental factor updates. Enterprise environmental factor (EEF) updates refer
to modifications or changes made to the conditions that influence, constrain, or direct a project.
These factors can be internal or external to the organization and are not under the control of the
project team. Updates to EEFs are important as they can enhance or constrain project management
options and have a positive or negative influence on the project’s outcome. Understanding and
updating EEFs is essential for effective project management.
Final product, service, or result transition. A product, service, or result, once delivered by the
project, may be handed over to a different group or organization that will operate, maintain, and
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.