156
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Factors that can affect the choice of communication technology may include the following:
⚫ Urgency of the need for information. The urgency, frequency, and format of the
information to be communicated may vary from project to project and within different
phases of a project.
⚫ Availability and reliability of technology. The technology that is required for distribution
of project communications artifacts should be compatible, available, and accessible for all
stakeholders throughout the project.
⚫
Ease of use. The choice of communication technologies should be suitable for project
participants, and proper training events should be planned where appropriate.
⚫
Project environment. Factors to consider include:
◾ Will the team meet and operate on a face-to-face bas is or in a virtual environment?
◾ Will the team be located in one or multiple time zone s?
◾ Will the team use multiple languages for communica tion?
◾ Are there any other project environmental factors, su ch as various aspects of culture,
that may constrain the efficiency of communication?
⚫ Sensitivity and confidentiality of the information. Some aspects to consider include:
◾ Will the information to be communicated be sensitive  or confidential? If so, additional
security measures may be required.
◾ Does the organization have social media policies for employees to ensure appropriate
behavior, security, and the protection of proprietary information?
Conflict management. Conflict is inevitable in a project environment. Sources of conflict include
scarce resources, scheduling priorities, and personal work styles. Team ground rules, group norms,
and solid project management practices, such as communication planning and role definition, can
reduce the amount of conflict.
Successful conflict management results in greater productivity and positive working relationships.
When managed properly, differences of opinion can lead to increased creativity and better decision-
making. If the differences become a negative factor, project team members are initially responsible for
their resolution. If conflict escalates, the project manager should help facilitate a satisfactory resolution.
Conflict should be addressed early and usually in private, using a direct, collaborative approach. If
disruptive conflict continues, formal procedures may be used, including disciplinary actions.
The success of project managers in managing their project teams often depends on their ability to
resolve conflicts. Different project managers may use different conflict resolution methods. Factors
that influence conflict resolution methods may include:
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.