6
⚫ Project success. The consensus view across intended beneficiaries, other stakeholders,
and project participants that a project was perceived to have delivered value that was worth
the effort and expense.
⚫ Project team. A set of individuals performing the work of the project to achieve its
objectives.
⚫
Value. The excess of financial and nonfinancial benefits over investment that is gained from
achieving the goals of a portfolio, program, or project. Different stakeholders perceive value
in different ways, which can be explained quantitatively or qualitatively. Thus, organizations
may focus on business value as determined by performance metrics or finances, such as
return on investment (ROI). Customers may interpret value as the convenience offered
by a given product or service. Governments and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)
may prioritize the value of societal impact on groups of people and their communities and
environments.
⚫
Value delivery system. A collection of strategic business activities aimed at building,
sustaining, and/or advancing an organization. Portfolios, programs, projects, products,
and operations can all be part of an organization’s system for value delivery. This system
enables organizations to align their work with their strategic objectives and achieve desired
outcomes.
For other terms used in this standard, refer to the glossary and the PMI Lexicon of Project Management
Terms [1].
1
1.3 Foundational Elements of Project Management
This section outlines the essential elements required to understand and effectively engage in project
management. The section explores key project management perspectives and relationships that are
crucial for effective project delivery and organizational success, covering concepts such as the following:
⚫
How projects create value and drive organizational change;
⚫ The link between organizational governance and project governance during project
initiation;
⚫ The differences between operations management and project management; and
⚫ The relationships among portfolio, program, and project management, as well as their
connections to operations management.
By examining these foundational elements, project management practitioners can gain a
comprehensive understanding of how projects fit into the broader organizational context and
contribute to value delivery.
1.3.1 Characteristics of a Project
Organizations expect projects to deliver value in addition to outputs and artifacts. Project managers
are expected to deliver project outcomes that create value for the organization and stakeholders
within the organization’s system for value delivery.
1 The numbers in brackets refer to the numbered list of references at the end of this standard.
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.