119
Section 4 – Inputs and Outputs
⚫ Budget forecasts. Predictions of future project expenditures based on current data.
⚫ Change log. Documentation of all changes made to the cost baseline.
Cost estimates. A cost estimate is a quantitative assessment of the likely costs for resources required
to complete an activity. The cost estimate is a prediction that is based on the information known at a
given point in time. Cost estimates include the identification and consideration of costing alternatives to
initiate and complete the project. Cost trade-offs and risks should be considered, such as make versus
buy, buy versus lease, and the sharing of resources in order to achieve optimal costs for the project.
Cost estimates are generally expressed in units of some currency (e.g., dollars, euros, yen, etc.). In
some instances, other units of measure, such as staff hours or staff days, may be used to facilitate
comparisons by eliminating the effects of currency fluctuations.
Cost estimates should be reviewed and refined during the course of the project to reflect additional
details as they become available and assumptions are tested. The accuracy of a project estimate will
increase as the project progresses through the project life cycle.
Costs are estimated for all resources that will be charged to the project. These resources include but
are not limited to labor, materials, equipment, services, and facilities, as well as special categories
such as an inflation allowance, cost of financing, or contingency costs. Cost estimates may be
presented at the activity level or in summary form.
Cost forecasts. Based on the project’s past performance, cost forecasts are used to determine if the
project is within defined tolerance ranges for the budget and to identify any necessary change requests.
A calculated estimate at completion (EAC) value is documented and communicated to stakeholders.
Deliverable. A deliverable is any unique and verifiable product, result, or capability to perform
a service that is required to be produced to complete a process, phase, or project. Projects are
undertaken to fulfill objectives by producing deliverables. Deliverables may be tangible or intangible.
Development approach. The development approach is the method used to create and evolve the
product, service, or result during the project life cycle, such as an adaptive, predictive, or hybrid method.
Duration estimates. Duration estimates are quantitative assessments of the likely number of
time periods that are required to complete an activity, phase, or project. Duration estimates do not
include any lags. Duration estimates may include some indication of the range of possible results.
For example:
⚫
A ra nge of 2 weeks ± 2 days, which indicates that the activity will take at least 8 days and not
more than 12 (assuming a 5-day work week); or
⚫ A 15% probability of exceeding 3 weeks, which indicates a high probability—85%—that the
activity will take 3 weeks or less.
Enterprise environmental factors (EEFs). Enterprise environmental factors are conditions,
not under the immediate control of the team, that influence, constrain, or direct the portfolio,
program, or project. These conditions can be internal and/or external to the organization. The EEFs
are considered as inputs to many project management processes, specifically for most planning
processes. These factors may enhance or constrain project management options. In addition, these
factors may have a positive or negative influence on the outcome.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.