157
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
⚫ Importance and intensity of the conflict,
⚫ Time pressure for resolving the conflict,
⚫ Relative power of the people involved in the conflict,
⚫ Importance of maintaining a good relationship, and
⚫ Motivation to resolve conflict on a long-term or short-term basis.
There are five general techniques for resolving conflict. Each technique has its place and use:
⚫ Withdraw/avoid. Retreating from an actual or potential conflict situation; postponing the
issue to be better prepared or to be resolved by others.
⚫ Smooth/accommodate. Emphasizing areas of agreement rather than areas of difference;
conceding one’s position to the needs of others to maintain harmony and relationships.
⚫ Compromise/reconcile. Searching for solutions that bring some degree of satisfaction to
all parties in order to temporarily or partially resolve the conflict. This approach occasionally
results in a lose-lose situation.
⚫
Force/direct. Pushing one’s viewpoint at the expense of others; offering only win-lose
solutions, usually enforced through a power position to resolve an emergency. This
approach often results in a win-lose situation.
⚫
Collaborate/problem-solve. Incorporating multiple viewpoints and insights from differing
perspectives; requires a cooperative attitude and open dialogue that typically leads to
consensus and commitment. This approach can result in a win-win situation.
Constructive cost model (COCOMO). A constructive cost model is a cost-estimation model for
effort, time, and cost, usually associated with software development projects. The source lines of
code or function points and adjustment factors are usually used as inputs and help to predict the
software development cost.
Contingent response strategies. These risk strategies are intentionally designed for implementation
only if one or more specific trigger conditions occur. Examples include an audit response process
activating only after an audit is requested, or planning to engage an alternate supplier only if and
when the preferred supplier cannot perform against requirements. This approach allows the project
team to avoid exerting effort and resources against a risk until they are needed. Moreover, the
focus can now shift away from the risk impact to the triggering event itself. These strategies are also
sometimes called contingency plans or fallback plans.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.