46
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Finally, managing risk is intrinsic to managing scope, as risks can significantly alter a project’s
trajectory. Comprehensive risk analysis is crucial to understanding potential impacts on the project
scope. Rescoping may be employed as a strategy to mitigate, avoid, or transfer risks.
2.2.5 Check Results
Activities within the Scope performance domain should be considered successful only if they
contribute to specific outcomes. Table 2-6 shows a set of sample target outcomes, along with a
potential check to confirm whether those outcomes are met.
Table 2-6. Check Outcomes—Scope Performance Domain
Outcome Check
The project employs
effective change
management.
Projects using a predictive approach have a change log that demonstrates
changes, taking into consideration the impact on the Scope, Schedule,
Finance, Stakeholders, Resources, and Risk performance domains. Projects
employing an adaptive approach use a backlog to manage scope, showing
the rate of accomplishing the scope, the rate of adding new scope, and the
prioritization and inclusion of stakeholder feedback.
There is a clear
understanding of
requirements.
In predictive development, fewer changes in the initial requirements may
reflect understanding. In projects where requirements are evolving, each
iteration provides a clear and well-defined understanding of short-term
requirements, enabling a rolling wave approach to uncovering and refining
longer-term requirements progressively.
The project is aligned with
business objectives and
strategy.
The business case and the organization’s strategic plan, along with the
project-authorizing documents, demonstrate that the project deliverables and
business objectives are aligned.
Stakeholders accept
and are satisfied with
deliverables.
Interviews, observation, and end-user feedback indicate stakeholder satis-
faction with the deliverables. Levels of complaints and returns may also be
used to indicate satisfaction.
Scope items are clearly
defined in the project scope
statement in percentages.
The scope definition accuracy is measured as: Scope Definition Accuracy (%) =
(Planned Scope Items Correctly Delivered / Total Planned Scope Items) x 100
Scope creep is measured
in percentages.
Scope creep, as a percentage, is measured as: Scope Creep (%) =
(Unplanned Deliverables / Total Deliverables) x 100
The stability of require-
ments is measured in
percentages.
The stability of requirements, as a percentage, is measured as: Requirements
Stability (%) = (Unchanged Requirements / Total Requirements) x 100
Sustainability is considered
in the project scope.
The WBS or backlog should include activities to manage sustainability (e.g.,
assess and manage CO
2 emissions due to project activity, or manage the im-
pact of project execution on local biodiversity in case of a significant impact).
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.