241
Appendix X3
(continued)
Table X3-1. (Continued)
Project Management
Performance Domain AI Strategy Use Case
Governance Automation Real-time monitoring. AI tools can continuously moni-
tor project progress against planned baselines, providing
real-time updates and alerts for deviations, enabling
timely corrective actions.
Governance Assistance Early warning signaling. Even when critical path analy-
sis, burndown charts, or cumulative flow diagrams show
that things appear to be progressing according to plan,
AI tools can use pattern recognition from similar projects
to indicate when things may be at risk of falling behind or
going off track.
Governance Augmentation Baseline optimization. AI tools can augment trade-off
analysis among scope, schedule, and cost factors to help
determine the optimal baseline that maximizes a project’s
value proposition.
Governance Automation AI chatbots. Virtual assistants powered by AI can handle
routine queries, provide project updates, and assist with
task management, freeing up project managers to focus
on more strategic activities.
Governance Automation Task management. AI assistants can track activities’
progress, send reminders, or assign tasks based on team
members’ workloads and skill sets.
Governance Automation Automated meeting minutes and summaries.
AI can schedule and transcribe meetings; identify key
points, decisions, and action items; and generate
detailed minutes automatically. AI can also provide
concise summaries of meetings, pointing out important
discussions and follow-up actions, helping ensure that all
stakeholders are aligned.
Risk Augmentation Risk identification and assessment. AI algorithms can
analyze historical project data and industry benchmarks to
identify potential risks in new projects. By using predictive
analytics, AI can assess the likelihood and impact of
these risks, enabling project managers to develop com-
prehensive risk management plans early in the planning
phase.
Risk Automation Automated risk mitigation actions. Once risks are
detected, AI can suggest—and even automate—certain
mitigation actions based on predefined rules on task
assignment and historical data.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.