266
blocker. See impediment.
budget. The approved estimate for the portfolio, program, or project, or any work breakdown
structure component or schedule activity.
budget at completion (BAC). The sum of all budgets established for the work to be performed. See
also actual cost (AC), earned value (EV), estimate at completion (EAC), estimate to complete (ETC), and
planned value (PV).
burn chart. A graphical representation of the work remaining in a timebox or the work completed
toward the release of a product or project deliverable.
business value. The net quantifiable benefit derived from a business endeavor that may be tangible,
intangible, or both.
cadence. A rhythm of activities conducted throughout the project.
change. A modification to any formally controlled deliverable, project management plan component,
or project document.
change control. A process whereby modifications to documents, deliverables, or baselines
associated with the project are identified, documented, approved, or rejected. See also change control
board (CCB).
change control board (CCB). A formally chartered group responsible for reviewing, evaluating,
approving, delaying, or rejecting changes to the project, and for recording and communicating such
decisions. See also change control.
change management. A comprehensive, cyclic, and structured approach for transitioning
individuals, groups, and organizations from a current state to a future state with intended business
benefits.
Closing Focus Area. Processes performed to formally complete or close a project, phase, contract, or
in some cases, to terminate a project before completion.
complexity. A characteristic of a program or project or its environment that is difficult to manage
due to human behavior, system behavior, and ambiguity.
confirmation bias. A type of cognitive bias that confirms preexisting beliefs or hypotheses.
conformance. The degree to which the results meet the set quality requirements.
constraint. A limiting factor that affects the execution of a portfolio, program, project, or process.
contingency. An event or occurrence that could affect the execution of the project, which may be
accounted for with a reserve.
contingency reserve. Time or money allocated in the schedule or cost baseline for known risks with
active response strategies. See also management reserve.
continuous delivery. The practice of delivering feature increments immediately to customers, often
through the use of small batches of work and automation technology.
contract. A mutually binding agreement that obligates the seller to provide the specified product,
service, or result and obligates the buyer to pay for it.
control. The process of comparing actual performance with planned performance, analyzing
variances, assessing trends to effect process improvements, evaluating possible alternatives, and
recommending appropriate corrective action as needed.
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.