181
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
Meeting management. Meeting management is an interpersonal and team skill used to ensure
meetings meet their intended objectives effectively and efficiently. The following steps should be
used for meeting planning:
⚫
Prepare and distribute the agenda stating the objectives of the meeting;
⚫ Ensure that the meeting starts and finishes at the published time;
⚫ Ensure the appropriate participants are invited and attend;
⚫ Stay on topic;
⚫ Manage expectations, issues, and conflicts during the meeting; and
⚫ Record all actions along with the individual who has responsibility for completing the action.
Meetings. Project meetings can include virtual or face-to-face meetings and can be supported with
document collaboration technologies such as email messages and project websites. Examples of
meetings include but are not limited to the following:
⚫
Decision-making,
⚫ Facilitated workshops,
⚫ Issue resolution,
⚫ Lessons learned and retrospectives,
⚫ Project kickoffs,
⚫ Sprint planning, and
⚫ Status updates.
Mind mapping. Mind mapping is a technique used to consolidate ideas created through individual
brainstorming sessions into a single map to reflect commonality and differences in understanding and
to generate new ideas. Mind mapping is a diagrammatic method used to visually organize information.
Motivation. Motivation is providing a reason for someone to act. Teams can be motivated by
empowering them to participate in decision-making and encouraging them to work independently.
⚫
Motivation models.  People perform better when they are motivated, and people are
motivated by different things. Understanding what motivates project team members
and other stakeholders helps to tailor rewards to the individual, thereby eliciting more
effective engagement. There are a significant number of models that illustrate how people
are motivated. Four models are described, though these are a small representation of
available models.
◾ Hygiene and motivational factors. Frederick Herzberg conducted a study of motivational
factors in working life. He believed that job satisfaction and dissatisfaction stem from
conditions called motivational factors. Motivational factors include matters that relate
to the content of the work, such as achievement, growth, and advancement. Insufficient
motivational factors lead to dissatisfaction. Sufficient motivational factors lead to
satisfaction. Herzberg also identified hygiene factors related to the work, such as company
policies, salary, and the physical environment. If hygiene factors are insufficient, they cause
dissatisfaction. However, even if they are sufficient, they do not lead to satisfaction.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.