196
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Rolling wave planning. Rolling wave planning is an iterative planning technique in which the work
to be accomplished in the near term is planned in detail, while the work in the future is planned at a
higher level. This progressive elaboration allows work to exist at various levels of detail, depending
on the project life cycle stage. During early strategic planning, when information is less defined, work
packages are outlined at a high level. As more information becomes available, these packages are
decomposed into detailed activities.
Root cause analysis. Root cause analysis is an analytical method used to determine the basic
underlying reason that causes a variance, defect, or risk. A root cause may underlie more than one
variance, defect, or risk. Root cause analysis may also be used as a technique for identifying the root
causes of a problem and solving them. When all root causes for a problem are removed, the problem
does not recur.
Schedule compression. Schedule compression is a technique used to shorten the schedule duration
without reducing the project scope. Schedule compression techniques are used to meet schedule
constraints, imposed dates, or other schedule objectives. A helpful technique is the negative float
analysis. The critical path is the one with the least float. Due to violating a constraint or imposed date,
the total float can become negative. Schedule compression techniques are compared in Figure 5-20
and include:
⚫
Crashing. A schedule compression technique used to shorten the schedule duration for
the least incremental cost by adding resources. Examples of crashing include approving
overtime, bringing in additional resources, or paying to expedite delivery to activities on
Figure 5-20. Schedule Compression Comparison
Normal
Crashing
Fast
Tracking
1 2 3 4 5
1 2 3 4 5
4 5 6 7 8
7 8 9 10 11
12 1 3
4 5 6 7
8 9 10
6 7 8 9 10
11 12 13 14 15
High Risk
High Cost
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.