128
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Project scope statement. The project scope statement is the description of the project scope,
major deliverables, assumptions, and constraints. The project scope statement documents the entire
scope, including the project and product scope. The statement describes the project’s deliverables in
detail and provides a common understanding of the project scope among project stakeholders. The
document may contain explicit scope exclusions that can assist in managing stakeholder expectations.
The project scope statement enables the project team to perform more detailed planning, guides the
project team’s work during execution, and provides the baseline for evaluating whether requests for
changes or additional work are contained within or outside the project’s boundaries.
The degree and level of detail to which the project scope statement defines the work that will be
performed and the work that is excluded can help determine how well the project management
team can control the overall project scope. The detailed project scope statement, either directly or by
reference to other documents, includes the following:
⚫
Project scope description. The project scope description progressively elaborates the
characteristics of the product, service, or result described in the project charter and
requirements documentation.
⚫
Deliverables. A deliverable is any unique and verifiable product, result, or capability
to perform a service that is required to be produced to complete a process, phase, or
project. Deliverables also include ancillary results such as project management reports and
documentation. These deliverables may be described at a summary level or in great detail.
⚫
Acceptance criteria. The acceptance criteria is a set of conditions that are met before
deliverables are accepted.
⚫ Project exclusions. Project exclusions identify what is excluded from the project. Explicitly
stating what is out of scope for the project helps manage stakeholders’ expectations and
can reduce scope creep.
Although the project charter and the project scope statement are sometimes perceived as containing
a certain degree of redundancy, they are different in the level of detail contained in each. The project
charter contains high-level information, while the project scope statement contains a detailed
description of the scope components. These components are progressively elaborated throughout
the project. Table 4-1 describes some of the key elements for each document.
Project team assignments. Project team assignments are recorded in a document containing a list
of the team members and their roles and responsibilities for the project. This documentation can
include a project team directory and names inserted into the project management plan, such as the
project organization charts and schedules.
Quality control measurements. Quality control measurements are the documented results of the
Manage Quality Assurance process activities. The measurements should be captured in the format
specified in the quality management plan.
Quality management plan. The quality management plan is a component of the program or project
management plan that describes how an organization’s policies, procedures, and guidelines will
be implemented to achieve the quality objectives. The plan describes the activities and resources
necessary for the project management team to achieve the quality objectives set for the project. The
quality management plan may be formal or informal, detailed or broadly framed. The style and detail
of the quality management plan are determined by the requirements of the project. The plan should
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.