239
Appendix X3
register or scheduling plan with buffers. A project professional is expected to review the
results to ensure they are accurate and complete.
⚫ Augmentation. Augmentation is the enhancement of existing capabilities and the
exploration of new ones by professionals. Augmentation focuses on strategic and complex
tasks such as balancing the options of a project portfolio to maximize the return of
investment or performing risk forecasting based on external variables. Project professionals
should use the tool as a brainstorming partner, exchanging ideas and refining the results
through multiple iterations.
X3.1.2 State of the Market
There are many AI tools, both free and paid, available for public use. Typically, the free options
restrict the number of questions (prompts) that can be submitted to the engine in a given interval of
time. The other big difference is how the engine deals with user data. Paid versions allow the user to
restrict the use of its data to retrain the models, ensuring privacy and protecting intellectual property.
X3.2 Common Use Cases
Table X3-1 demonstrates how AI can significantly enhance various aspects of project management,
including planning, controlling, stakeholder engagement, risk management, and strategic decision-
making.
Figure X3-2 presents some use cases classified by complexity and the need for human intervention.
X3.3 Responsible Use and Ethical Concerns
The use of AI in projects and organizations brings together associated benefits and risks that should
be considered. On one hand, the use of AI may shift the daily work of project professionals from
repetitive tasks to higher-level and more creative tasks. On the other hand, it is up to human beings to
take the related risks into account and make appropriate decisions regarding AI’s use and potential.
There are multiple ethical factors and risks that may play a critical role in the adoption of AI, particularly:
⚫
Bias. AI systems can be subject to bias if they are trained with biased data or if the
algorithms they are using introduce bias themselves. The risk of bias can be mitigated
through different actions such as:
◾
Diversification of the data sets on which the AI system is trained;
◾ Periodic tests conducted on the AI system, with particular focus on bias; and
◾ Involvement of different teams in the development of the AI system.
⚫ Privacy. AI systems use large data sets that can be sensitive and regulated by privacy
policies and laws. This use of sensitive information increases the need to properly secure
the data and ensure that it is collected with a privacy policy in place. There is a risk that the
data can be used in a way that violates privacy and ethical standards.
⚫
Accountability. AI systems may be responsible for certain decisions, depending on the
working arrangement. Ultimately, a human should be accountable for each decision, and
this accountability should be clearly defined.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.