38
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
⚫ Project scope. Project scope encompasses the work performed to deliver a product,
service, or result with the specified features and functions. The project scope helps ensure
that the expected value is achieved. Scope encapsulates a project’s expected value, so it is
the most important component of any project’s baseline. The delivery of any project’s scope
should generate expected value that is not only worth the time and resources invested, but
also ideally maximized.
⚫
Requirement. A requirement is a condition or capability that is necessary to be present in a
product, service, or result to satisfy a business need.
⚫
Scope baseline. In predictive environments, the scope baseline is the approved version
of formal scope documents that can be changed using formal change control procedures
and is used as the basis for comparison to actual results. The scope baseline forms part of
the performance measurement baseline (PMB), which also includes the schedule baseline
and the cost baseline. For adaptive approaches, the baseline is defined at the beginning of
each iteration and aligned with the prioritized requirements, based on the value expected
from the delivery. In adaptive environments, it is usually a product owner who dynamically
approves changes and generates them in a more flexible environment, without a formal
change control procedure.
⚫
Work breakdown structure (WBS). In a project incorporating aspects of a predictive or
hybrid approach, a WBS is a hierarchical decomposition of the total scope of work to be
carried out by the project team to accomplish the project objectives and create the required
deliverables. In projects using a predictive approach, the WBS, together with the project
scope statement and the WBS dictionary, constitutes the scope baseline.
⚫
Quality as a feature. Quality is an integral attribute of scope and can include both
functional and nonfunctional requirements of the product, service, or result. For example,
the scope of a bridge-construction project would include a bridge but should also
incorporate some target thresholds for how sturdy, long-lasting, and easy to maintain
that bridge should be. These quality features are the same as any consideration of scope,
including which cost and schedule trade-offs might yield the highest possible expected
lifetime value per unit of investment.
⚫
Product scope. The product scope is a description of the features, functions, and
characteristics of the product, service, or result the project is intended to deliver. It is what
the end result should look like and what it should do. The focus is on the deliverables
themselves, including their quality and performance specifications.
⚫
Value breakdown structure (VBS). A VBS is a hierarchical structure that connects the project
scope and its intended value to the product scope that will generate that value. The top level
of the VBS should include the major deliverables that have been discussed and generated
among the stakeholders. The value that each deliverable is expected to add should be an
input into each item as either a value-based number (e.g., dollars of revenue, students taught
to read, or lives saved, depending on the project) or a percentage of the expected total value
of the project (100% if the specific deliverable is mandatory). These value-added estimates
can then be used to prioritize the deliverables and their work, as well as to estimate the drag
cost of each critical path item. Each item at the top of the VBS can then be decomposed into
its component subdeliverables, which in turn are decomposed through a work breakdown
structure into the project scope and activities to create the valued items in the VBS.
⚫
Product backlog. The product backlog is a dynamic, prioritized list of work items and
features. The product backlog provides teams in adaptive environments with a framework
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.