91
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
⚫ Emphasis on employee well-being. Employee burnout has been a major concern in
recent years. Quiet quitting is when employees continually put in the minimum amount
of effort to keep their jobs but do not go the extra mile for their employer. This lack of
engagement could mean a reluctance to speak up in meetings or not volunteering for tasks.
Quiet quitting may also result in greater absenteeism. Companies are prioritizing mental
health initiatives and creating a work culture that fosters a work-life balance. This effort
may include flexible work schedules, stress management programs, and generous time-off
policies.
2.6.3.1 Examples
The following are two examples of how these considerations might be applied:
⚫
Example 1. A project team working on a large, high-variability project with an adaptive
approach may find that resource planning for physical, virtual, or human resources is less
predictable, requiring flexible agreements and lean methods to control costs and meet
schedule demands.
⚫
Example 2. A project with a newly formed virtual team may encounter collaboration issues.
Thus, some suggestions that could be provided include:
◾ Ensuring there are collaboration sites for working tog ether;
◾ Having a project team site to keep all relevant projec t and project team information
available;
◾ Using audio, video, and virtual conferencing capabilit ies for meetings;
◾ Using technology to maintain ongoing contact, such a s messaging and texting;
◾ Scheduling time to get to know remote project team members;
◾ Having at least one face-to-face meeting to establish relationships; and
◾ Creating a team charter and defining ways of working .
2.6.4 Interactions With Other Domains
The Resources performance domain interacts with all other performance domains. The Stakeholders,
Resources, and Risk performance domains significantly impact the project outcome, which is defined
by schedule, cost, and scope parameters. Additionally, other projects may compete for the same
available resources at the same time and location. This competition for resources may considerably
impact project costs, schedules, risks, scope, quality, and other project areas.
The Estimate Resources process is closely coordinated with other processes, such as the Estimate
Costs process, to help ensure a comprehensive approach to project planning and execution. This
coordination is crucial as it helps to align the resource estimation with the project’s overall budget
and financial constraints. Doing so helps ensure that the project remains financially viable and that
resources are utilized optimally without unnecessary expenditure.
Project managers are responsible for leading the team to work together to focus on what is
essential at the project level. This coordination is achieved through the integration of processes,
knowledge, and people. So, to integrate all of the performance domains and lead the project work,
the project manager’s main concern should be to lead the project team to achieve the project
objectives.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.