14
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
2.1.5 Key Concepts
The key concepts detailed in Sections 2.1.5.1 through 2.1.5.4 support effective practices for the
Governance performance domain.
2.1.5.1 Leading Indicators
Leading indicators indicate upcoming changes or reveal trends in the project. If the change or trend is
unfavorable, the project team should evaluate the root cause of the leading indicator measurement and
take corrective actions to address the trend. Used in this way, leading indicators can reduce performance
risk on a project by identifying potential performance variances before they cross the tolerance threshold.
Leading indicators may be quantifiable, such as the size of the project or the number of items
that are in progress in the backlog. Other leading indicators are more difficult to quantify, but
they provide early warning signs of potential problems. The lack of a risk management process,
stakeholders who are not available or engaged, or poorly defined project success criteria are all
examples of leading indicators that project performance may be at risk.
Using leading indicators is preferable whenever possible because they can be used to prevent future
problems that may require rework.
2.1.5.2 Lagging Indicators
Lagging indicators measure project deliverables or events. These indicators provide information after
the fact. Lagging indicators reflect past performance or conditions and are easier to measure than
leading indicators. Examples include the number of deliverables completed, the schedule or cost
variance, and the amount of resources consumed.
Lagging indicators can also be used to find correlations between outcomes and environmental
variables. For example, a lagging indicator that reveals a schedule variance may show a correlation
with project team member dissatisfaction. This correlation can assist the project team in addressing a
root cause that may not have been obvious if the only measurement was the schedule status.
2.1.5.3 SMART Criteria
SMART criteria are guidelines used to set clear, attainable, and meaningful goals. The acronym
SMART stands for specific, measurable, achievable, realistic, and time-bound. These criteria help
ensure that objectives are well defined and reachable within a certain timeframe, making them more
effective and easier to track.
2.1.5.4 Sourcing Strategy
Project resources can be insourced, outsourced, or both. Determining which parts of a project should
use which approaches represents a set of governance decisions. A project’s sourcing strategy should
consider impacts to schedule, scope, finances, resource capacity, risks, and other considerations.
These considerations include but are not limited to the following:
⚫
How might the project organization’s culture, differentiating skills, and proximity motivate
more use of internal resources?
⚫ How might the project’s need for specialized skills or supplies, scaled capacity, or variable
capacity motivate increased use of outsourcing?
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.