25
Section 2 – A System for Value Delivery
Coordinating a collective work effort is extremely important to the success of any project. There
are different types of coordination suitable for different contexts. Some projects benefit from
decentralized coordination, in which project team members self-organize and self-manage (such
as agile projects). Other projects benefit from centralized coordination, with the leadership and
guidance of a designated project manager or similar role (such as predictive projects). Some projects
with centralized coordination can also benefit from hybrid or mixed coordination, including self-
organized project teams for portions of the work.
Regardless of how projects are coordinated, the collective effort of the project team delivers
outcomes, benefits, and value. The project team may be supported by additional functions
depending on the deliverables, industry, organization, and other variables. In addition to these
functions, other functions may be necessary to enable project deliverables that produce the
desired outcomes. The needs of the project, organization, and environment all influence which
functions are used on a project and how those functions are carried out. Sections 2.4.1 through
2.4.7 provide examples of functions commonly found in projects; however, they do not represent
an exhaustive list.
2.4.1 Provide Oversight and Coordination
Oversight and coordination enable the project team to deliver value by aligning efforts, removing
obstacles, and maintaining team focus. The specifics of how this function is carried out within the
project team may vary among organizations but can include all project management activities. In
some organizations, this function may involve some evaluation and analysis activities as part of the
preliminary project activities. Coordination includes consulting with executives and business unit
leaders on ideas for advancing objectives, improving project performance, and meeting customer
needs. The coordination activities may also include assisting in business analysis, tendering and
contract negotiations, and business case development. Oversight may be involved in follow-on
activities related to benefits realization and sustainment after the project deliverables are finalized
but before formal closure of the project. Examples of roles responsible for these functions include
project managers, who may be formally assigned such activities, and scrum masters (further
described in Section 2.5.1), who are asked to lead the project team to perform the activities
themselves. Ultimately, the oversight and coordination function is tailored to fit the needs of the
organization and its specific portfolio, program, and project requirements.
2.4.2 Solicit and Manage Feedback
Individuals involved in the project contribute perspectives, insights, direction, and expectations. In
projects that use adaptive or hybrid approaches, the need for ongoing feedback is greater because
the project teams are exploring and developing product elements within specific increments due to
ambiguity and complexity. In some project environments, the customer, end user, or product owner
engages with the project team for periodic reviews and feedback. In some projects, a representative
of the customer or client participates with the project team. Close collaboration can ensure that the
customer and end-user input is directly integrated into ongoing development activities. The extent
of customer and end-user input depends on factors such as project complexity, product maturity,
and level of uncertainty, as well as the guidance or direction that may be required to enable value
creation. Feedback can be collected in person or virtually, using both analog and digital techniques.
For more information on feedback, please refer to the tools and techniques detailed in Section 5 of
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK
® Guide) [2].
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.