33
Section 2 – A System for Value Delivery
The strategic link that the sponsor, customer, or product owner provides both empowers
and enables the project team to optimize its performance by maintaining alignment with the
organization’s strategy. Thus, their presence and, more importantly, the degree of their involvement,
increases the likelihood of achieving the desired project outcome, while their absence might
adversely impact the project.
Further details about project teams, functions, roles, responsibilities, and characteristics are
elaborated in Section 2.5 (Stakeholders performance domain) in A Guide to the Project Management
Body of Knowledge (PMBOK
® Guide) [2].
2.5.3 Project Team
The project team is a set of individuals who are performing the project’s work and are directly
responsible for achieving project objectives. The team’s size, composition, and skill level depend on
the project’s type, scale, complexity, and organizational level of maturity. The level of the project
team’s involvement and the coordination required may vary from project to project and should
be tailored according to the project’s needs considering factors such as complexity, management
approach, and level of changes involved. Some projects benefit from decentralized coordination in
which project team members self-organize and self-manage, such as agile teams, while other projects
benefit from centralized coordination under the leadership and guidance of a project management
team, project manager, or a hybrid governance model. Regardless of how coordination takes place,
supportive leadership models and meaningful continuous engagement among project teams and
other stakeholders are key to a successful project.
Section 2.6 (Resources performance domain) in A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
(PMBOK
® Guide) [2] provides further details about project teams, functions, roles, responsibilities, and
characteristics of the project team.
2.5.4 End Users and Other Key Stakeholders
To effectively serve a project’s target beneficiaries, project management teams and project teams
should, when possible, engage in continuous dialogue with end users, influencers, customers,
regulators, and other key stakeholders. The goals of doing so are to capture and integrate their
feedback throughout the project life cycle, ensure mutual alignment, and build credibility across the
project ecosystem. This engagement involves iterative verification and validation processes to help
ensure that the project remains aligned with the end users’ evolving needs. By prioritizing end-user
satisfaction, project management teams can minimize the risks associated with delivering a product
or service that does not meet the expected utility. Thus, the integration of end-user feedback refines
the project outcome as well as secures its relevance and success by confirming that the deliverables
concretely address the needs and expectations of those who will ultimately use them. This strategy
helps ensure that the project delivers substantial value, achieving its primary goal of satisfying the
end users.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.