58
life cycles are independent of product life cycles, which can be part of the outcomes produced by a
project. Projects may also generate outputs, which in turn enable outcomes that progressively realize
the organization’s strategy.
The phases in a life cycle can be described by a variety of attributes. Attributes may be measurable
and unique to a specific phase. Attributes may include but are not limited to name, number, duration,
resource requirements, entrance criteria for a project to move into that phase, and exit criteria for a
project to complete a phase. A phase gate may occur after the end of a phase, before the beginning
of the next phase.
Phase gates often include a review—sometimes known as stage gate, gate review, iteration review,
or decision point review—to check that the desired outcomes or exit criteria for the phase have
been achieved before proceeding to the next phase. Exit criteria may be tied to acceptance criteria
for deliverables, contractual obligations, meeting specific performance targets, or other tangible
measures. Factors such as resource availability, verification of the project’s viability, and current
alignment with organizational goals may determine the entry criteria. The project’s performance and
progress are compared to project and business documents that specify expectations. A decision (e.g.,
go/no-go decision) is made as a result of this comparison to continue to the next phase, continue to
the next phase with modification, end the project or phase, remain in the phase, repeat the phase or
elements of it, or park the project temporarily to address another urgent business initiative.
While phase gates are traditionally placed at the end of each phase to review the project’s progress,
they can also be placed at the start of each phase. These starting phase gates (pre-phase gates)
can help ensure that the project is properly aligned, that sufficient resources and planning are in
place, and that potential risks are addressed before progressing further. This additional checkpoint
enhances the control and success of the project.
Organizations with multiple projects will often adopt a few standard project life cycles. Project
managers and project teams may need to advise their management on the most appropriate life
cycle to use, or it may be prescribed for them. If there is no standard life cycle, project managers and
project teams should determine the best life cycle for each project. The project life cycle should be
flexible enough to meet or exceed the project’s target objectives in a way that protects and enhances
the project’s value proposition as much as possible. Life cycle flexibility often includes the following:
⚫
Selecting the development approach or mix of approaches;
⚫ Identifying the types of processes and activities that should be performed; and
⚫ Adjusting the various attributes of an activity, phase, or process (e.g., name, duration,
entrance criteria, and exit criteria).
A generic project phase is generally impacted by a series of characteristics. Depending on the project
life cycle, these may present a series of scenarios. These characteristics and their scenarios vary
greatly but may include the following:
⚫
Cost and staffing. In many predictive project scenarios, levels of cost and staffing are low at
the start, increase as the work is carried out, and drop rapidly as the project or phase ends.
⚫ Risk and uncertainty. Regardless of the project life cycle, these two elements are usually
greatest at the start of the project or phase and decrease over the project’s life cycle as
decisions are reached and deliverables are accepted.
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.