134
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
⚫ Project organization charts. A project organization chart is a graphical display of project
team members and their reporting relationships. The chart can be formal or informal,
highly detailed or broadly framed, based on the needs of the project. For example, the
project organization chart for a 3,000-person disaster response team should have greater
detail than a project organization chart for an internal, 20-person project.
⚫
Project team resource management. Guidance on how the project team resources
should be defined, staffed, managed, and eventually released.
⚫
Training. Training strategies for team members.
⚫ Team development. Methods for developing the project team.
⚫ Resource control. Methods for ensuring adequate physical resources are available as
needed and that the acquisition of physical resources is optimized for project needs. The
resource control includes information on managing inventory, equipment, and supplies
throughout the project life cycle.
⚫
Recognition plan. A plan for which recognitions and rewards will be given to team
members, and when they will be given.
Resource requirements. Resource requirements identify the types and quantities of resources
required for each work package or activity in a work package and can be aggregated to determine the
estimated resources for each work package, each WBS branch, and the entire project. The amount
of detail and the level of specificity of the resource requirement descriptions can vary by application
area. The resource requirements documentation may include assumptions made in determining
which types of resources should be applied, their availability, and what quantities are needed.
Revenue forecasts. Revenue forecasts are projections of the future financial performance of an
organization or project, specifically focusing on the expected income generated from sales or services
over a certain period. These forecasts are crucial for strategic planning, budgeting, and decision-
making processes as they provide insights into potential financial outcomes and help in managing
resources effectively.
Risk management plan. The risk management plan is a component of the project management plan
and describes how risk management activities will be structured and performed.
The risk management plan may include some or all of the following elements:
⚫
Risk strategy. The risk strategy describes the general approach to managing risk on a project.
⚫ Methodology. The methodology defines the specific approaches, tools, and data sources
that will be used to perform risk management on a project.
⚫ Roles and responsibilities. The roles and responsibilities define the lead, support, and risk
management team members for each type of activity described in the risk management
plan and help to clarify their responsibilities.
⚫
Funding. Funding identifies the funds needed to perform activities related to the
management of risk. Funding also establishes protocols for the application of contingency
and management reserves.
⚫
Timing. Timing defines when and how often the risk processes will be performed
throughout the project life cycle and establishes risk management activities for inclusion in
the project schedule.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.