28
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
2.1.6.7.1 Measurement Pitfalls
Project measurements help the project team meet the project objectives. However, there are some
pitfalls associated with measurement. Awareness of these risks can help minimize their negative
effects. Project practitioners should be aware of the following risks:
⚫
Hawthorne effect. The Hawthorne effect states that the very act of measuring something
influences behavior. Therefore, take care in establishing metrics. For example, measuring
only a project team’s output of deliverables can encourage the project team to focus on
creating a large volume of deliverables rather than focusing on deliverables that would
provide higher customer satisfaction.
⚫
Vanity metric. A vanity metric is a measure that shows data but does not provide useful
information for making decisions. Measuring page views of a website is not as useful as
measuring the number of new viewers.
⚫
Demoralization. If measures and goals are set that are not achievable, project team
morale may fall as the team continuously fails to meet targets. Setting stretch goals
and aspirational measures is acceptable, but people also want to see their hard work
recognized. Unrealistic or unachievable goals can be counterproductive.
⚫
Misusing the metrics. Regardless of the metrics used to measure performance, there
is the opportunity for people to distort the measurements or focus on the wrong thing.
Examples include:
◾ Focusing on less-important metrics rather than the m etrics that matter most,
◾ Focusing on performing well for short-term measure s at the expense of long-term
metrics, and
◾ Working on out-of-sequence activities that are easy t o accomplish in order to improve
performance indicators.
⚫ Confirmation bias. Human beings tend to look for and see information that supports their
preexisting points of view. This bias can lead people to make false interpretations of data.
⚫ Correlation versus causation. A common mistake in interpreting measurement data
is confusing the correlation of two variables with the idea that one causes the other. For
example, seeing projects that are behind schedule and over budget might cause one to
infer that those projects are over budget because of schedule issues. This assumption
may not be true, nor is it always true that projects that are behind schedule cause budget
overruns. Instead, there are likely other correlating factors that are not being considered,
such as skill in estimating, the ability to manage change, and actively managing risks. Being
aware of the pitfalls associated with metrics can help with establishing effective metrics in
addition to being vigilant regarding the dangers related to inappropriate measures.
2.1.6.8 Assess and Implement Changes
The Assess and Implement Changes process occurs from the start of a project through its completion,
as changes can occur at any stage. Change requests can affect various aspects such as project scope,
product scope, project management plan components, and project documents. Such changes can be
proposed by any stakeholder and may occur at any point in the project life cycle. The degree of project
change request management that is applied depends on the scope of the project, its complexity, the
contract requirements, and the development approach being used (see Figure 2-10).
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.