7
Section 1 – Introduction
Organizational work encompasses both operations and projects. Although both are expected to
deliver value beyond outputs and artifacts, they differ in their value-creation processes. The following
terms are defined to provide context for these distinctions and the broader content of this standard:
⚫
Temporary. Projects are initiated to create value by producing tangible and/or intangible
deliverables such as products, services, or other results. Unlike ongoing operations, projects
are temporary and have a defined beginning and end. Although projects are temporary,
their deliverables often persist beyond the project’s conclusion. Usually, a project ends
when one or more of the following conditions are met:
◾ The project’s objectives have been achieved;
◾ A governing body, the project sponsor, or the project  team has determined that the
objectives will not or cannot be met;
◾ Resources (funding, human, or physical) are exhaust ed or no longer available;
◾ Due to changes in strategy, priorities, or the external  environment, the need for the
project no longer exists; or
◾ The project is terminated for other reasons such as le gal, regulatory, or compliance
issues.
⚫ Unique context. A unique context in projects refers to the specific conditions and
environments that distinguish one project from another, even if they have otherwise similar
characteristics. This uniqueness arises from factors such as differences in goals, scope,
duration, location, technology, quality, costs, risks, resources, and stakeholders involved in
the project. Even if two projects aim for the same value or objectives, each project differs
due to the context in which it is carried out. These differences require tailored management
approaches to meet the specific needs and challenges of each project. As a result, the
unique context of each project requires customized strategies for success.
For example, a large housing development project may involve a single construction vendor in a
single government district. However, each of those housing units may involve varying lenders and
buyers, distinct customization requests, and unique grading requirements from one plot to another.
⚫
Value creation through organizational change. Projects, in pursuit of value, drive
change in organizations. From a business perspective, a project’s purpose is to move an
organization from one state to another to achieve a specific objective (see Figure 1-1).
Before the project begins, an organization is in its current state. The desired result of
the change driven by the project is described as the future state. For some projects, this
shift may involve creating a transition state where several steps are taken in a structured
manner to achieve the future state. The successful completion of a project results in the
organization moving to the future state and achieving value for the organization, as defined
by key stakeholders.
1.3.2 Connecting Organizational Governance and Project Governance
Organizational governance provides direction and control through policies, processes, procedures,
and decisions to meet strategic and operational goals. Typically overseen by an executive committee
or organizational leaders, organizational governance helps ensure transparency, oversight,
compliance, resiliency, and adaptability for its stakeholders. In many organizations, organizational
governance is inspired by the country’s laws, business domain regulations, industry standards, and
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.