102
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
requires integrating scope management, schedule planning, financial considerations, stakeholder
engagement, and communication to help ensure tailored and comprehensive risk response
strategies.
2.7.5 Check Results
Activities in the Risk performance domain are considered successful when they contribute to specific
outcomes. Table 2-11 shows a set of sample target outcomes, along with a potential check to confirm
whether those outcomes are met.
Table 2-11. Check Outcomes—Risk Performance Domain
Outcome Check
There is an awareness of the environment
in which projects occur, including techni-
cal, social, political, market, and eco-
nomic contexts.
The team incorporates environmental considerations when
evaluating uncertainty, risks, and responses.
The project team proactively explores and
responds to uncertainty.
Risk responses are aligned with project constraints such as
budget, schedule, and performance.
The project team has the capacity to anti-
cipate threats and opportunities and un-
derstands the consequences of issues.
A process is in place, and well understood by the project team,
for identifying, assessing, documenting, and responding to
risks.
Project delivery is achieved with minimal
negative impact from unknown events or
conditions.
Reserves are in place and utilized, scheduled delivery dates
are met, and the budget performance is within the variance
threshold.
Opportunities to improve project perfor-
mance and outcomes are realized.
Project teams use established mechanisms to identify,
leverage, and track the realization of opportunities.
Project contingency reserves are used
effectively to maintain alignment with
project objectives.
Project teams take steps to proactively prevent threats,
thereby limiting the use of project contingency reserves.
Resilience and the ability to recover
quickly from setbacks are being devel-
oped throughout the project.
The project team is aware of the larger organization’s business
continuity plan or emergency response plan. Where applicable,
a project continuity plan is developed. A management reserve
is available to cover unknown risks.
During times of crisis, the project team can quickly adjust its
structure and processes to adapt to new constraints.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.