148
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
of assumptions. Constraints may give rise to opportunities through removing or relaxing a limiting
factor that affects the execution of a project or process.
Audits. An audit is a structured, independent process used to determine if project activities comply
with organizational and project policies, processes, and procedures.
⚫ Procurement audit. A procurement audit is a structured review of the procurement
process, which includes the review of contracts and contracting processes for
completeness, accuracy, and effectiveness. Rights and obligations related to audits should
be described in the procurement contract. Resulting audit observations should be brought
to the attention of the buyer’s project manager and the seller’s project manager for
adjustments to the project, when necessary.
⚫
Quality audit. A quality audit is usually conducted by a team external to the project, such
as the organization’s internal audit department, project management office (PMO), or
an auditor external to the organization. Quality audit objectives may include but are not
limited to the following:
◾ Identifying all good practices being implemented;
◾ Identifying all nonconformities, gaps, and shortcomin gs;
◾ Sharing good practices introduced or implemented in  similar projects in the
organization and/or industry;
◾ Proactively offering assistance in a positive manner t o improve the implementation of
processes to help raise team productivity;
◾ Highlighting contributions of each audit in the lesson s learned repository of the
organization;
◾ Subsequent efforts to correct any deficiencies should  result in a reduced cost of quality
and an increase in sponsor or customer acceptance of the project’s product;
◾ Quality audits may be scheduled or random, and ma y be conducted by internal or
external auditors; and
◾ Quality audits can confirm the implementation of ap proved change requests including
updates, corrective actions, defect repairs, and preventive actions.
⚫ Risk audit. A risk audit is a type of audit that may be used to consider the effectiveness of the
risk management process. The project manager is responsible for ensuring that risk audits
are performed at an appropriate frequency, as defined in the project’s risk management plan.
Risk audits may be included during routine project review meetings, may form part of a risk
review meeting, or the team may choose to hold separate risk audit meetings. The format for
the risk audit and its objectives should be clearly defined before the audit is conducted.
Augmented reality (AR). Augmented reality is the use of technology to simulate and enhance the
actual, physical reality and environment through the overlay of digital information. This technique
connects the real and digital worlds through technologies and devices such as smartphones or headsets.
Autocratic decision-making. See decision-making.
Backlog management. Backlog management is primarily used in adaptive approaches to maintain
the list of backlog items to be worked on during a project and refers to the process by which the
owner of the backlog, commonly a product owner, assists in keeping the backlog up to date. To avoid
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.