104
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
⚫ Creating high-quality deliverables and outcomes,
⚫ Ensuring compliance with regulatory standards and sustainability considerations,
⚫ Satisfying diverse stakeholder expectations, and
⚫ Adapting to change.
These factors should be understood, evaluated, and balanced to create a practical operating
environment for the project. There may be situations that limit the degree to which project teams can
tailor their approach (e.g., when organizational policies mandate the use of a specific approach or
when a contract specifies a mandated approach).
3.2 Why Tailor?
The structure used to deliver projects can be extensive or minimal, rigorous or lightweight, and
comprehensive or streamlined. In short, there is no single approach that can be applied to all
projects all of the time. Tailoring is performed to better suit the organization, operating environment,
and project needs. Many variables factor into this process, including the criticality of the project,
scale, duration, complexity, industry standards, organizational culture, number of stakeholders
involved, and level of organizational project management maturity. For example, the rigor, checks
and balances, and reporting requirements for a critical nuclear reactor project are much greater than
those for building a new office building. Similarly, the communication and coordination needs for a
10-member project team are far less extensive than for a project team of 200 people.
Too few processes can lead to ineffective project management, while employing more processes than
required is costly and wasteful. Thus, tailoring leads to optimum and effective project management
that can deliver direct and indirect value to organizations, including the following benefits:
⚫
More commitment from the project team members who helped to tailor the approach;
⚫ Customer-oriented focus enhancements, as the needs of the customer are an important
influencing factor in its development; and
⚫ More efficient use of project resources.
3.3 What to Tailor
This section discusses three project aspects that can be tailored:
⚫ Life cycle and development approach selection,
⚫ Processes, and
⚫ Engagement.
Sections 3.3.1 through 3.3.3 explore each of these in more detail.
3.3.1 Life Cycle and Development Approach Selection
Deciding on a life cycle and its phases is an example of tailoring; additional tailoring can be done while
selecting the development approach for the project. For instance, building a new data center could
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.