72
4.5.3 Executing Focus Area
The Executing Focus Area consists of those processes, practices, or actions performed to complete
the work in a manner consistent with the currently agreed-upon course of action.
The actions in this Focus Area include coordinating resources, managing stakeholder engagement,
and performing the activities of the project, as well as other project tasks. The key benefit of this
Focus Area is to drive focused execution to achieve the value proposition represented by the
integrated baseline. The project management plan can and should be changed whenever such a
change would enhance the value proposition of the project. This Focus Area is also where the choice
of development approach (adaptive, predictive, or hybrid) is often most evident.
4.5.4 Monitoring and Controlling Focus Area
The Monitoring and Controlling Focus Area consists of those actions required to track, measure,
review, and regulate the progress and performance of the project; identify any areas in which
changes to the plan are required; and initiate the corresponding changes.
Monitoring can include comparing project performance data, producing performance measures,
comparing actual performance with planned performance, or reporting and disseminating
performance information. Controlling can include analyzing variances, assessing trends to affect
process improvements, evaluating possible alternatives, and recommending appropriate course
corrections as needed.
The key benefit of this Focus Area is to ensure the project is on track to meet expectations. This
effort often involves measuring and analyzing project performance at regular intervals, appropriate
events, or when exceptional conditions occur. If any variances are found, the project management
team identifies what, if any, corrective actions may be needed. Those corrective actions are then
negotiated and agreed upon by appropriate stakeholders.
For any project having a stable project management plan, the effort required to perform Monitoring
and Controlling will be fairly consistent throughout execution. In contrast, for any project undergoing
frequent and significant changes—as is common with adaptive approaches—Monitoring and
Controlling efforts are likely to be less consistent.
The Monitoring and Controlling Focus Area monitors and controls the work being done within
each life cycle phase and for the project as a whole. The Monitoring and Controlling Focus Area is
performed in parallel with the other Focus Areas. It is not a separate, stand-alone area.
4.5.5 Closing Focus Area
The Closing Focus Area consists of the actions performed to formally complete or close a project,
phase, contract, or in some cases, to terminate a project before completion. This effort may include
the verification that specific actions are completed for other Focus Areas before a given project or
phase can be declared as complete.
The key benefit of this Focus Area is that phases, projects, and contracts are closed out appropriately,
transitioning to operations in a manner that helps meet or exceed the project’s target business
objectives. Verifying the achievement of project outputs, outcomes, and benefits as part of this
Focus Area is essential to ensuring that the project has met or exceeded the intended value and
stakeholders’ expectations.
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.