44
⚫ Resilience. Can the deliverables and supporting processes cope with unforeseen failures
and recover quickly?
⚫ Satisfaction. Do the deliverables and processes elicit valuable feedback from customers
and/or end users, including usability and user experience?
⚫ Uniformity. Do the deliverables and processes demonstrate parity across similar outputs or
workflows?
⚫ Efficiency. Are the deliverables and processes optimized to produce the greatest output
with the least input?
⚫ Sustainability. Do the deliverables and processes contribute positively to economic, social,
and environmental outcomes?
⚫ Compliance. Do the deliverables and processes comply with regulatory requirements and
relevant industry standards, as well as organizational standards?
Project teams measure quality using metrics and acceptance criteria based on project specifications.
A specification is an attribute that is necessary to be present in a project deliverable to help meet
or exceed a target objective. Quality is linked to the product acceptance criteria, as described in the
project charter, statement of work (SOW), or other key documents. In some projects, as the project
evolves through experimentation, these criteria should be regularly updated and refined. Ensuring
these criteria are validated during the acceptance process is essential to meeting project objectives
and delivering a successful product.
Quality is also relevant to the project approaches and activities used to produce the project’s
deliverables. Project teams can pursue the target quality thresholds of both the project and the
product by providing training, conducting inspections, and performing testing. Additionally, project
activities and processes are evaluated through reviews and audits. Both approaches aim to identify
and prevent errors and defects, thereby maintaining an accelerated flow of completed work while
pursuing target quality thresholds.
3.5.1 Project Impact
The objective of quality activities is to help ensure that what is delivered meets the objectives of the
customer and other relevant stakeholders. The intention is to minimize the waste of resources and
maximize the probability of attaining the desired outcome. This effort results in the following:
⚫
Moving the deliverables to the point of delivery without unnecessary delays, and
⚫ Minimizing the need for rework and/or reducing material waste through the early detection
and prevention of defects.
The objective of quality activities is the same whether dealing with an up-front, well-defined set of
requirements or a set of requirements that is progressively elaborated and incrementally delivered.
Quality management processes and practices help produce deliverables and outcomes that meet
project objectives and align to the expectations, requirements, and acceptance criteria expressed
by the organization and relevant stakeholders. Close attention to quality in project processes and
deliverables creates positive outcomes, including the following:
⚫
Project deliverables that are fit for purpose and that meet acceptance criteria, stakeholder
expectations, and organizational objectives;
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.