67
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
2.5 Stakeholders Performance Domain
The Stakeholders performance domain addresses the processes and tools related to stakeholder
engagement, starting from the identification of stakeholders through the monitoring of their
engagement during the whole life cycle of the project. The project sponsor, team members, and
all the people impacted by—or who feel they may be impacted by—the project are considered as
stakeholders. This performance domain is closely linked to communications management. Among
other abilities, some key skills to develop in this performance domain are negotiation and conflict
management.
Internal and external stakeholders include individuals, groups, and organizations (see Figure 2-31).
A project can have a small group of stakeholders or potentially millions of stakeholders. There may
be different stakeholders in different phases of the project, and the influence, power, or interests of
stakeholders may change as the project unfolds.
Effective stakeholder identification, analysis, and engagement includes stakeholders who are
either internal or external to the organization, those who are supportive of the project, those who
are neutral, and opponents, who are not supportive of the project. The activities of identification,
prioritization, and engagement should be reviewed and updated routinely, or at least when the
project progresses through phases. While having relevant technical project management skills is an
important aspect to delivering successful projects, possessing the interpersonal and leadership skills
to work effectively with stakeholders is just as important, if not more so.
Outcome Check
The project contributes to business
objectives and the advancement of
strategy (value maximization).
Check parameters such as return on investment (ROI) (metric), net
present value (NPV) (metric), internal rate of return (IRR) (metric),
cost-benefit analysis, key performance indicators (KPIs), objectives
and key results (OKRs), CapEx, and OpEx.
Project completeness is within or
below budget.
Check the variance analysis with metrics such as cost
variance (CV) and cost performance index (CPI), as well as the
accomplishment of financial targets with the vendors based on the
signed contract.
Project deliverables are validated
according to the plan.
Apply earned value management (EVM) and check other metrics as
defined by the organization.
Value is created as an investment or
as a different kind of value from the
financial perspective.
Use different metrics to be measured as project success based on
what is defined in the project success criteria for the project; for
instance, the investment or potential value in the future.
Financial visibility is achieved. Use tools such as trend analysis or graphical analysis and perform
forecasting.
Table 2-8. Check Outcomes—Finance Performance Domain
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.