73
Section 4 – Project Life Cycles
This Focus Area may also address the suspension or early closure of the project (e.g., when canceling
the project becomes the best way to maximize the return on that project investment—or perhaps
more accurately, to minimize what may have become a negative return).
4.5.6 Focus Areas as a Whole
These five Focus Areas are independent of the application areas (such as marketing, information
services, or accounting) or industry focus (such as construction, aerospace, or telecommunications).
The Focus Areas are also independent of approach, as all development approaches honor these five
in some manner. Individual processes, practices, or actions in the Focus Areas are often iterated prior
to completing a phase or a project.
The Project Management Focus Areas are essential for understanding and applying project
management principles, regardless of the development approach (predictive, adaptive, or hybrid).
Tailoring these areas to each project’s specific needs can ensure effective planning, execution, and
monitoring and controlling, aligning with organizational goals and stakeholder expectations.
Focus Areas are not project phases. If the project is divided into phases, the actions in the Focus
Areas interact within each phase. Moreover, these five Focus Areas are not strictly sequential;
they often overlap within a single phase. For example, planning and monitoring can happen
simultaneously. This overlap is shown in Figures 4-13 and 4-14, which each illustrate how different
aspects of project management may interact throughout the project life cycle.
Figure 4-13 illustrates an example of how Focus Areas can interact during a project or phase using a
primarily predictive approach. The level of effort applied to a given Focus Area can vary both within
project phases and across the overall project life cycle.
Planning
Focus
Area
Initiating
Focus
Area
Executing
Focus
Area
Monitoring
and Controlling
Focus Area
Closing
Focus
Area
Start Finish
Level of
Effort
Engineering Procurement
Construction
Commission Handover
Figure 4-13.  Example of Focus Area Interactions Within a Project or Phase Using a
Predictive Approach
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.