182
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
◾ Intrinsic versus extrinsic motivation. Daniel Pink published several books about the
intrinsic factors that motivate people. He stated that while extrinsic rewards, such as
salary, are motivators to a certain extent, once a person is paid fairly for their work,
the motivational power of extrinsic rewards ceases to exist. For complicated and
challenging work, such as much of the work on projects, intrinsic motivators are far
longer lasting and more effective. Pink identifies three types of intrinsic motivators:
autonomy, mastery, and purpose:
▶
Autonomy. Autonomy is the desire to direct one’s own life. This desire is aligned
with being able to determine how, where, and when to accomplish work. Autonomy
includes flexible work hours, working from home, and work on self-selecting and
self-managing project teams.
▶
Mastery. Mastery is about being able to improve and excel. The desire to do
excellent work, learn, and achieve goals are aspects of mastery.
▶ Purpose. Purpose speaks to the need to make a difference. Knowing the project
vision and how work contributes to achieving that vision allows people to feel like
they are making a difference.
◾ Theory of needs. David McClelland’s model states that all people are driven by needs
of achievement, power, and affiliation. The relative strength of each need depends on
an individual’s experiences and culture.
▶
Achievement. People who are motivated by achievement, such as reaching a goal,
are motivated by activities and work that is challenging but reasonable.
▶ Power. People who are motivated by power like to organize, motivate, and lead
others. They are motivated by increased responsibility.
▶
Affiliation. People who are motivated by affiliation seek acceptance and belonging.
They are motivated by being part of a team.
◾ Theory X, Theory Y, and Theory Z. Douglas McGregor devised the Theory X
and Theory Y models, which represent a spectrum of employee motivation and
corresponding management styles. This spectrum was later expanded to include
Theory Z.
▶
Theory X. The X side of the spectrum assumes individuals work for the sole
purpose of income. They are not ambitious or goal oriented. The corresponding
management style to motivate these individuals is a hands-on and top-down
approach. This management style is often seen in a production or labor-intensive
environment, or one with many layers of management.
▶
Theory Y. The Y side of the spectrum assumes that individuals are intrinsically
motivated to do good work. The corresponding management style has a more
personal, coaching feel. The manager encourages creativity and discussion. This
management style is often seen in creative and knowledge worker environments.
▶
Theory Z. Abraham Maslow saw Theory Z as a transcendent dimension to work where
individuals are motivated by self-realization, values, and a higher calling. The optimal
management style in this situation is one that cultivates insight and meaning. William
Ouchi’s version of Theory Z focuses on motivating employees by creating a job for
life, where the focus is on the well-being of employees and their families. This style of
management seeks to promote high productivity, morale, and satisfaction.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.