84
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
⚫ These factors and criteria may be considered and addressed during the project planning
stage. The project manager or team may need to document the impact of the unavailability
of required resources on the project schedule, budget, risks, quality, training plans, and
other project management plans.
2.6.2.4 Lead the Team
Lead the Team is the process of applying knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques for managing and
leading the team by improving competencies, team member interactions, and the overall team
environment to enhance project performance. This process also involves tracking team member
performance, providing feedback, resolving and escalating issues, and managing team changes to
optimize project performance. The key benefit of this process is that it influences team behavior,
manages conflict, and resolves issues among team members (see Figure 2-44).
The Lead the Team process involves both management and leadership activities as follows:
⚫
Management activities. Management activities focus on the means of meeting project
objectives such as having effective processes, planning, coordinating, measuring, and
monitoring work.
⚫
Leadership activities. Leadership activities focus on people and encompass influencing,
motivating, listening, enabling, and other activities related to leading the project team, all of
which are important in delivering the intended project outcomes. A project manager should
be sensitive to the willingness and ability of team members to perform their work and should
adjust their management and leadership styles to account for these factors as needed.
2.6.2.4.1 Common Aspects of Team Development
Regardless of how management activities are structured, the common aspects of project team
development include the following:
⚫
Vision and objectives. The vision and objectives are communicated throughout the project
and are essential for understanding. This communication includes referencing the intended
outcomes when the project team makes decisions and solves problems.
⚫
Roles and responsibilities. Project managers should ensure that project team members
understand and fulfill their roles and responsibilities. This effort may include identifying
gaps in knowledge and skills and developing strategies to address those gaps through
training, mentoring, or coaching. For more information, refer to the responsibility
assignment matrix information in Section 5, Tools and Techniques.
⚫
Project team operations. Facilitating project team communication, problem-solving, and
the process of consensus building may include working with the project team to develop a
project team charter and a set of operating guidelines or project team norms.
⚫
Guidance. Guidance should be directed to the overall project team to keep everyone
headed in the right direction. Individual project team members may also provide guidance
on a particular task or deliverable.
⚫
Growth. Identifying areas where the project team is performing well and pointing out areas
where the project team can improve helps everyone grow. Working collaboratively, the
project team should identify goals for improvement and take steps to meet those goals.
Individuals may want to develop their skills and experience in certain areas, and the project
manager can assist with that.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.