125
Section 4 – Inputs and Outputs
The procurement management plan contains the activities to be undertaken during the procurement
process. The plan should document whether international competitive bidding, national competitive
bidding, local bidding, etc., should be done. If the project is financed externally, the sources and availability
of funding should be aligned with the procurement management plan and the project schedule.
The procurement management plan may include guidance for the following:
⚫
How procurement will be coordinated with other project aspects such as project schedule
development and control processes;
⚫ Timetable of key procurement activities;
⚫ Procurement metrics to be used to manage contracts;
⚫ Stakeholder roles and responsibilities related to procurement, including authority and
constraints of the project team when the performing organization has a procurement
department;
⚫ Constraints and assumptions that could affect planned procurements;
⚫ Legal jurisdiction and the currency in which payments will be made;
⚫ Determination of whether independent estimates will be used and whether they are
needed as evaluation criteria;
⚫ Risk management issues, including identifying requirements for performance bonds or
insurance contracts to mitigate some forms of project risk; and
⚫ Prequalified sellers, if any, to be used.
A procurement management plan can be formal or informal, highly detailed or broadly framed, and
is based upon the needs of each project.
Product. An artifact that is produced, is quantifiable, and can be either an end item in itself or a
component item. Product is an overarching term that includes both tangible (physical goods) and
intangible (digital goods and services) items.
Project calendars. A project calendar is a calendar that identifies working days and shifts that are
available for scheduled activities. The project calendar distinguishes time periods in days, or parts
of days, that are available to complete scheduled activities from time periods that are not available
for work. A schedule model may require more than one project calendar to allow for different work
periods for some activities to calculate the project schedule. Project calendars may be updated.
Project charter. A project charter is a document issued by the project initiator or sponsor that
formally authorizes the existence of a project and provides the project manager with the authority to
apply organizational resources to project activities.
Project communications. Project communications may include but are not limited to performance
reports, deliverable status, schedule progress, cost incurred, presentations, and other information
required by stakeholders.
Project documents. The project documents include documentation created throughout the five
Project Management Focus Areas to initiate, plan, execute, monitor and control, and close the project
before delivering it. Examples include the change log, issue log, project schedule, project scope
statement, requirements documentation, risk register, and stakeholder register.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.