5
Section 1 – Introduction
1.3 Changes to the PMBOK ® Guide
This edition of the PMBOK® Guide focuses on delivering outcomes regardless of the approach used by
the project team. However, project practitioners using the PMBOK® Guide also benefit from some level
of understanding of how to deliver projects.
This eighth edition takes the best parts of previous editions of the PMBOK® Guide to offer project
managers a more practical and complete framework. The detailed, process-oriented approach of
the sixth edition (using inputs, tools and techniques, and outputs [ITTOs]) is combined with the
seventh edition’s valuable concept of performance domains, which emphasizes how different project
elements are interconnected. This edition integrates ITTOs and process descriptions directly into the
performance domain structure. This combined approach provides both a thorough understanding
of individual processes and a broader view of how those processes interact to produce the desired
project results. This approach makes the guide more adaptable and useful for project managers
using a variety of approaches and working in diverse situations.
Tailoring is the deliberate adaptation of the project management approach, governance, and
processes to make them more suitable for a given environment (environmental factors include
industry, culture, regulations, etc.) and fit for the purpose of the work at hand. The tailoring process
is driven by the guiding project management principles, organizational values, and organizational
culture. This guide preserves tailoring guidance from the previous edition while also adding tailoring
considerations for each project management performance domain.
In embracing the full spectrum of project management approaches, this edition of the PMBOK
® Guide
recognizes that no publication can capture every tool, technique, process, or practice that project teams
might use. Therefore, this edition presents an array of commonly used good practices, activities, and
processes that project practitioners can use to accomplish their work. These practices and processes
are able to fit most projects most of the time.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.