89
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
benefits of collaboration also apply to other project environments, collaborative teams
are often critical to the success of projects with a high degree of variability and rapid
changes because there is less time for centralized tasking and decision-making.
⚫
Maturity of project team culture. When project teams form across different organizations
based on a contract, strategic partnership, or other business relationship, specific roles
that perform various functions may be more formalized and less flexible depending on the
contract or other terms. Such arrangements often require more up-front work to establish
a “one team” mindset; ensure project team members understand how everyone contributes
to the project; and establish other enablers that integrate skills, capabilities, and processes.
The teams may differ in aspects such as:
◾ Unique culture of the project team. Each project team develops its own team culture.
The project team’s culture may be established deliberately by developing project team
norms or informally through the behaviors and actions of its project team members.
The project team culture operates within the organization’s culture but reflects the
project team’s individual ways of working and interacting.
◾ Transparency on bias. Human beings have a set of biases, some of them unconscious
and some of them conscious. For example, one person may feel that unless a schedule
is displayed using a software-generated Gantt chart, it is not a true or valid schedule.
Another person may have a contrasting bias that detailed planning further out than 30
days is a waste of time. Being open and transparent about biases up front establishes a
culture of openness and trust that can enable consensus and collaboration.
◾ Project manager role. The project manager role is key in establishing and maintaining
a safe, respectful, nonjudgmental environment that allows the project team to
communicate openly. One way to accomplish this is by modeling desired behaviors,
such as:
▶
Transparency. Being transparent in how one thinks, makes choices, and processes
information helps others identify and share their own processes. This openness can
extend to being transparent about biases as well.
▶
Integrity. Integrity comprises ethical behavior and honesty. Individuals
demonstrate honesty by sharing risks, communicating their assumptions and
basis of estimates, delivering bad news early, and ensuring that status reports
provide an accurate depiction of the project’s progress. Ethical behavior can include
spotlighting potential defects or negative effects in product design; disclosing
potential conflicts of interest; ensuring fairness; and making decisions based on
environmental, stakeholder, and financial impacts.
▶
Respect. Demonstrating respect for each person, how they think, their skills, and
the perspective and expertise they bring to the project team sets the stage for all
project team members to adopt this behavior.
▶
Positive discourse. Throughout the project, diverse opinions, different ways of
approaching situations, and misunderstandings will occur. These are a normal
part of conducting projects. These challenges present an opportunity to have a
dialogue rather than a debate. A dialogue entails working with others to resolve
divergent opinions. The goal is to arrive at a resolution that all parties can embrace.
Conversely, a debate is a win-lose scenario where people are more interested
in winning personally than they are in being open to alternative solutions to a
problem.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.