202
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Effective storytelling enhances communication within the team and across the organization.
Storytelling makes complex information more understandable and relatable, which can lead to
better decision-making and problem-solving. Moreover, sharing success stories and overcoming
challenges can inspire and motivate team members, fostering a positive and collaborative work
environment.
Strategies for opportunities. There are five alternative strategies that may be considered for
dealing with opportunities, as follows:
⚫
Escalate. The escalate risk response strategy is appropriate when the project team or
project sponsor agrees that an opportunity is outside the scope of the project or that the
proposed response would exceed the project manager’s authority. Escalated opportunities
are managed at the portfolio level, program level, or other relevant part of the organization,
but not at the project level. The project manager determines who should be notified about
the opportunity and communicates the details to that person or part of the organization.
It is important that ownership of escalated opportunities is accepted by the relevant party
in the organization. Opportunities are usually escalated to the level that matches the
objectives that would be affected if the opportunity occurred. Escalated opportunities are
not monitored further by the project team after escalation, although they may be recorded
in the risk register for information.
⚫
Exploit. The exploit strategy may be selected for high-priority opportunities where the
organization wants to ensure that the opportunity is realized. This strategy seeks to capture
the benefit associated with a particular opportunity by ensuring that it definitely happens,
increasing the probability of occurrence to 100%. Examples of exploiting responses may
include assigning an organization’s most talented resources to the project to reduce the
time to completion or using new technologies or technology upgrades to reduce cost and
duration.
⚫
Share. Sharing involves transferring ownership of an opportunity to a third party so that
it shares some of the benefit if the opportunity occurs. It is important to select the new
owner of a shared opportunity carefully, so they are best able to capture the opportunity
for the benefit of the project. Risk sharing often involves payment of a risk premium to the
party taking on the opportunity. Examples of sharing actions include forming risk-sharing
partnerships, teams, special-purpose companies, or joint ventures.
⚫
Enhance. The enhance strategy is used to increase the probability and/or impact of an
opportunity. Early enhancement action is often more effective than trying to improve the
benefit after the opportunity has occurred. The probability of occurrence for an opportunity
may be increased by focusing attention on its causes. Where it is not possible to increase
probability, an enhancement response might increase the impact by targeting factors that
drive the size of the potential benefit. Examples of enhancing opportunities include adding
more resources to an activity to finish early.
⚫
Accept. Accepting an opportunity acknowledges its existence but no proactive action is
taken. This strategy may be appropriate for low-priority opportunities, and it may also be
adopted where it is not possible or cost-effective to address an opportunity in any other
way. Acceptance can be either active or passive. The most common active acceptance
strategy is to establish a contingency reserve, including amounts of time, money, or
resources to take advantage of the opportunity if it occurs. Passive acceptance involves no
proactive action apart from periodic review of the opportunity to ensure that it does not
change significantly.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.