60
The choice of the development approach for a project is typically made by the project manager
in consultation with the project management team, who, based on the nature of the project,
carries out the necessary evaluations for establishing the framework and way of working with
the team.
The main factors that play a role in the choice of the approach are related to the requirements,
scope, timeline, and goals of the project; the organization’s culture and needs; and the level of
stakeholder involvement, risk profile, technological considerations, and overall complexity of the
broader project context.
When the requirements are sufficiently clear and stable early in the project, a predictive approach
may be optimal and, in this setup, the schedule baseline, together with the cost baseline, are
determined according to the scope that should be delivered. Taken together, the baselines for
schedule, cost, and scope are referred to as the project’s integrated baseline.
When the requirements are less clear early in the project, or the project is expected to incur more
complexity and uncertainty, then more feedback is needed (e.g., details from the final customer
or end user) to ensure project success. In such cases, an adaptive approach may be optimal. In an
adaptive approach, work is reviewed periodically, often in a timeboxed cadence, so that feedback
can be incorporated as the integrated baseline evolves. At the end of the timebox, the requirements
that have been implemented will be reviewed and planning for the next timebox will commence. In
this case, based on the timeboxes and the team involved (as well as the budget), the scope will be
delivered in an adaptive way.
However, it is important to note that differing possible adaptive approaches may provide different
possible sets of project baselines. Projects often need the ability to vary a set of constraints in
order to operate with other, more fixed constraints, often called the inverted triangle concept
(see Figure 4-3).
Development Approaches
Predictive Hybrid Adaptive
Increasingly Iterative and Incremental
Figure 4-2. The Spectrum of Development Approaches
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.