88
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Updating resource allocations requires knowing what actual resources have been used to date
and what is still needed. This task is done mainly by reviewing the performance usage to date. The
Monitor and Control Resourcing process is concerned with:
⚫
Monitoring resource expenditures,
⚫ Identifying and dealing with resource shortages and surpluses in a timely manner,
⚫ Ensuring that resources are used and released according to the plan and project needs,
⚫ Informing appropriate stakeholders if any issues arise with relevant resources,
⚫ Influencing the factors that can create resource utilization changes, and
⚫ Managing the actual changes as they occur.
The Monitor and Control Resourcing techniques discussed here are those used most frequently on
projects implementing a predictive approach. There are many others that may be useful on certain
projects or in some application areas. Failing to manage and control resources efficiently is a risk to
successful project completion. For example, the following may occur:
⚫
Failing to secure critical equipment or infrastructure on time may result in delays in the
manufacture of the final product.
⚫ Ordering low-quality materials may damage the quality of the product, causing a high rate
of recalls or rework.
⚫ Keeping too much inventory may result in high operational costs and reduce the
organization’s profit. Conversely, an unacceptably low inventory level could hinder the
ability to satisfy customer demand and, again, reduce the organization’s profit.
2.6.3 Tailoring Considerations
Given the uniqueness of each project, activities and processes within the Resources performance
domain may be tailored to align with the project’s specific requirements, constraints, and stakeholder
expectations. Considerations for tailoring include but are not limited to the following:
⚫
Development approach selection. Leadership styles are tailored to meet the needs of the
project, environment, and stakeholders. Organizations and project teams with experience
on a specific type of project may be more self-managing and require less leadership. When
a project is new to an organization, the tendency is to provide more oversight and use a
more direct leadership style.
◾ In a predictive development approach, resource man agement is typically planned and
structured in advance. Tailoring in this context involves defining resource requirements
early in the project and allocating them based on the project schedule. This effort
includes identifying all necessary skills and resources, creating a detailed resource
management plan, and ensuring resource availability throughout the project.
◾ In an adaptive development approach, projects with high variability benefit from team
structures that maximize focus and collaboration, such as self-organizing teams with
generalizing specialists. Collaboration is intended to boost productivity and facilitate
innovative problem-solving. Collaborative teams may facilitate accelerated integration
of distinct work activities, improve communication, increase knowledge sharing, and
provide flexibility of work assignments in addition to other advantages. Although the
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.