163
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
⚫ Bar chart or bar graph for ordinal data. Ordinal data can be grouped into categories
based on natural order or hierarchy (e.g., level of education such as high school diploma,
bachelor’s degree, master’s degree, doctorate degree).
⚫
Histogram for discrete data. Discrete data will usually have limited, finite value numbers
(e.g., product reviews).
⚫
Line graph or line chart for continuous data. Continuous data can take any value (e.g.,
temperature).
Decision-making. Decision-making techniques include but are not limited to the following:
⚫ Voting. Voting is a collective decision-making technique and an assessment process
having multiple alternatives with an expected outcome in the form of future actions. These
techniques can be used to generate, classify, and prioritize product requirements. Examples
of voting techniques include:
◾ Unanimity. A decision that is reached whereby everyone agrees on a single course of
action.
◾ Majority. A decision that is reached with support obtained from more than 50% of the
members of the group. Having a group size with an uneven number of participants can
ensure that a decision will be reached rather than resulting in a tie.
◾ Plurality. A decision that is reached whereby the largest block in a group decides, even
if a majority is not achieved. This method is generally used when the number of options
nominated is more than two.
⚫
Autocratic decision-making. In this method, one individual takes responsibility for making
the decision for the group.
⚫ Multicriteria decision analysis. A technique that uses a decision matrix to provide a
systematic, analytical approach for establishing criteria, such as risk levels, uncertainty, and
valuation, to evaluate and rank many ideas.
Decision tree analysis.  Decision tree analysis is a diagramming and calculation technique
for evaluating the implications of a chain of multiple options in the presence of uncertainty.
Decision trees are used to support selection of the best of several alternative courses of action.
Alternative paths through the project are shown in the decision tree using branches representing
different decisions or events, each of which can have associated costs and related individual
project risks (including both threats and opportunities). The end points of branches in the
decision tree represent the outcome from following that particular path, which can be negative
or positive.
The decision tree is evaluated by calculating the expected monetary value of each branch, allowing
the optimal path to be selected. An example decision tree is shown in Figure 5-5.
Decomposition. Decomposition is a technique used for dividing and subdividing the project scope
and project deliverables into smaller, more manageable parts. The work package is the work defined
at the lowest level of the work breakdown structure (WBS) for which cost and duration can be
estimated and managed. The level of decomposition is often guided by the degree of control needed
to effectively manage the project. The level of detail for work packages varies depending on the size
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.