271
program. A group of related projects and program activities managed in a coordinated manner to
obtain benefits not available from managing them individually. See also portfolio and project.
program management. The application of knowledge, skills, and principles to a program to achieve
the program objectives and to obtain benefits and control not available by managing program
components individually. See also portfolio management and project management.
progressive elaboration. The iterative process of increasing the level of detail in a project
management plan as greater amounts of information and more accurate estimates become
available.
project. A temporary initiative in a unique context undertaken to create value. See also portfolio and
program.
project calendar. A calendar that identifies working days and shifts that are available for scheduled
activities.
project governance. The framework, functions, and processes that guide project management
activities in order to meet or exceed target project objectives.
project lead. A person who helps the project team to achieve the project objectives, typically by
orchestrating the work of the project. See also project manager.
project life cycle. The series of phases that a project passes through from its start to its completion.
See also product life cycle.
project management. The application of knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques to project activities
to meet or exceed the intended value. See also portfolio management and program management.
project management body of knowledge (PMBOK). A term that describes the knowledge within
the profession of project management.
Project Management Focus Areas. A logical grouping of project management inputs, tools and
techniques, and outputs. The Project Management Focus Areas include Initiating processes, Planning
processes, Executing processes, Monitoring and Controlling processes, and Closing processes.
project management office (PMO). Organizational entities, typically established as departments
or teams, primarily tasked with centralizing activities related to the management of portfolios,
programs, and/or projects. The nature of these activities can vary according to the unique needs of
each organization.
project management team. The members of the project team who are directly involved in project
management activities.
project manager. The person assigned by the performing organization to lead the team that is
responsible for achieving the project objectives. See also project lead.
project phase. A collection of logically related project activities that culminates in the completion of
one or more deliverables. See also phase gate.
project review. An event at the end of a phase or project to assess the status, evaluate the
value delivered, and determine if the project is ready to move to the next phase or transition to
operations.
project scope. The work performed to deliver a product, service, or result with the specified features
and functions. See also product scope and scope.
project sponsor. See sponsor.
Glossary
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.