201
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
of the project (influence), or ability to cause changes to the project’s planning or execution.
These classification models are useful for small projects or projects with simple relationships
between stakeholders and the project, or within the stakeholder community itself.
⚫
Stakeholder cube. This is a refinement of the grid models previously explained. This model
combines the grid elements into a three-dimensional model that can be useful to project
managers and teams in identifying and engaging their stakeholder community. It provides a
model with multiple dimensions that improves the depiction of the stakeholder community
as a multidimensional entity and assists with the development of communication strategies.
⚫
Salience model. The salience model describes classes of stakeholders based on
assessments of their power (level of authority or ability to influence the outcomes of the
project), urgency (need for immediate attention, either time-constrained or relating to the
stakeholders’ high stakes in the outcome), and legitimacy (their involvement is appropriate).
There is an adaptation of the salience model that substitutes proximity (stakeholders’ direct
involvement in the project activities, such as their physical proximity to the worksite, or
their direct contribution to project deliverables) for legitimacy (applying to the team and
measuring their level of involvement with the work of the project). The salience model
is useful for large, complex communities of stakeholders or where there are complex
networks of relationships within the community. It is also useful in determining the relative
importance of the identified stakeholders.
⚫
Directions of influence. This technique classifies stakeholders according to their influence
on the work of the project or the project team itself. Stakeholders can be classified in the
following ways:
◾ Upward (senior management of the performing organization or customer organization,
sponsor, and steering committee);
◾ Downward (the team or specialists contributing knowledge or skills in a temporary
capacity);
◾ Outward (stakeholder groups and their representatives outside the project team, such
as suppliers, government departments, the public, end users, and regulators); or
◾ Sideward (the peers of the project manager, such as other project managers or middle
managers who are in competition for scarce project resources or who collaborate with
the project manager in sharing resources or information).
⚫
Prioritization. Prioritizing stakeholders may be necessary for projects with a large number
of stakeholders, where the membership of the stakeholder community is changing
frequently, or when the relationships between stakeholders and the project team or within
the stakeholder community are complex.
Storytelling. Storytelling in project management is a powerful tool for conveying lessons learned,
good practices, and project outcomes through narratives. Unlike traditional reports or data
presentations, storytelling engages the audience by making the information more relatable and
memorable.
Stories are particularly effective for transferring tacit knowledge, which is often difficult to articulate
through formal documentation. By illustrating real-life scenarios and solutions, storytelling helps
team members understand complex concepts and apply them in their work. Additionally, storytelling
can shape organizational culture by highlighting values, successes, and learning moments, thereby
reinforcing desired behaviors and practices.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.