46
⚫ Schedule. An emphasis on quality has implications for the project’s schedule. Examples
include ensuring scheduling practices and artifacts are reviewed for completeness and
correctness; integrating product quality reviews as scheduled milestones; and practicing a
“shift-left” approach, where quality practices are prioritized as early in the project life cycle
as possible.
⚫
Finance. Embedding quality into finance helps control costs by preventing rework and
reducing waste. Aligning financial management with quality objectives supports cost control
while pursuing the project’s objectives.
⚫
Stakeholders. Quality in this performance domain helps ensure that stakeholder expectations
are met. Through continuous communication, stakeholder feedback is integrated into the
project aspects, leading to increased satisfaction, collaboration, and credibility.
⚫
Resources. In this performance domain, embedding quality can ensure that the right
resources are allocated to maintain target quality thresholds. This effort includes using
skilled personnel and appropriate tools, helping to ensure that the project is adequately
supported to deliver the intended results.
⚫
Risk. The Risk performance domain encompasses the proactive management of quality-
related risks. By embedding quality into every aspect of the project, potential quality issues
can be anticipated and mitigated, reducing the risk of defects and noncompliance.
3.6 Be an Accountable Leader
Projects create a unique need for effective leadership. Unlike general business operations, where roles
and responsibilities are often established and consistent, projects may involve multiple organizations,
departments, functions, or vendors that do not interact on a regular basis. Moreover, projects may
carry higher stakes and expectations than regular operational functions. As a result, a broader array
of managers, executives, senior contributors, and other stakeholders may attempt to influence a
project. This diversity of influence often creates higher degrees of confusion and conflict. Consequently,
effective leadership behaviors are found more frequently—and from more people—on high-performing
projects than lower-performing projects. Accountable leadership is about being responsible and taking
ownership of the project’s target business objectives, as well as the actions taken and the decisions
made (see Figure 3-5). When accepting or pulling work, accountability means being responsible for the
execution of that work. The key characteristics of an accountable leader include the following:
⚫
Integrity, honesty, and fairness. These values are required of all team members, where
people demonstrate the moral principles that guide their decisions, particularly in tough
situations. The decisions made by a leader with integrity and fairness are focused on the
common good, helping to build trust with stakeholders.
⚫
Self-awareness. Effective leaders have the capability to make connections among their
feelings, thoughts, and actions by understanding their motives, values, and strengths.
This self-awareness helps professionals build relationships to accomplish results.
⚫
Respectfulness, humility, and availability. Leaders should be open to feedback and
should work for the team, supporting their needs and removing barriers when possible.
These values form the basis for the concept of servant leadership.
⚫
Flexibility and adaptability. Leaders should have the capability to adapt their leadership
style to the situation and the audience. Leadership styles should be adapted based on the
project’s needs without losing the leader’s core values.
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.