273
risk enhancement. A risk response strategy that involves increasing the probability of occurrence
or impact of an opportunity. See also risk acceptance, risk avoidance, risk escalation, risk exploiting, risk
mitigation, risk sharing, and risk transference.
risk escalation. A risk response strategy that involves transferring the ownership of the risk to a
relevant party in the organization because the risk is outside of scope or the team does not have
sufficient authority to address it. See also risk acceptance, risk avoidance, risk enhancement, risk
exploiting, risk mitigation, risk sharing, and risk transference.
risk exploiting. A risk response strategy whereby the project team acts to ensure that an opportunity
occurs. See also risk acceptance, risk avoidance, risk enhancement, risk escalation, risk mitigation, risk
sharing, and risk transference.
risk exposure. An aggregate measure of the potential impact of all risks at any given point in time in
a portfolio, program, or project.
risk mitigation. A risk response strategy that involves decreasing the probability of occurrence
or impact of a threat. See also risk acceptance, risk avoidance, risk enhancement, risk escalation, risk
exploiting, risk sharing, and risk transference.
risk review. The process of analyzing the status of existing risks and identifying new risks. May also
be known as a risk reassessment.
risk sharing. A risk response strategy that involves allocating ownership of an opportunity to a third
party that is best able to capture the opportunity or absorb the impact of the threat. See also risk
acceptance, risk avoidance, risk enhancement, risk escalation, risk exploiting, risk mitigation, and risk
transference.
risk threshold. The measure of acceptable variation around an objective that reflects the risk
appetite of the organization and stakeholders. See also risk appetite.
risk transference. A risk response strategy that involves shifting the impact of a threat to a
third party, together with ownership of the response. See also risk acceptance, risk avoidance, risk
enhancement, risk escalation, risk exploiting, risk mitigation, and risk sharing.
roadmap. A high-level timeline that depicts such things as milestones, significant events, reviews,
and decision points.
role. A defined function to be performed by a project team member, such as testing, filing,
inspecting, or coding.
S-curve diagram. A graph that displays cumulative costs over a specified period of time.
schedule model. A representation of the plan for executing the project’s activities including
durations, dependencies, and other planning information, used to produce a project schedule along
with other scheduling artifacts.
schedule performance index (SPI). A measure of schedule efficiency expressed as the ratio of
earned value to planned value. See also cost performance index (CPI).
schedule variance (SV). A measure of schedule performance expressed as the difference between
the earned value and the planned value. See also cost variance (CV).
scope. The sum of the products, services, and results to be provided as a project. See also product
scope and project scope.
scope creep. The uncontrolled expansion to product or project scope without adjustments to time,
cost, and resources.
Glossary
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.