94
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
⚫ Risk appetite. Risk appetite is the degree of uncertainty an organization or individual is willing
to accept in anticipation of a reward. Risk appetite is often quantified through a risk threshold.
⚫ Risk threshold. The risk threshold is the measure of acceptable variation around an
objective that reflects the risk appetite of the organization and stakeholders (internal and
external) (e.g., a risk threshold of ±5% around a cost objective reflects a lower risk appetite
than a risk threshold of ±10%).
⚫
Risk exposure. Risk exposure is an aggregate measure of the potential impact of all risks at
any given point in time in a portfolio, program, or project.
⚫ Risk response. A risk response is an action, planned or implemented, to address particular
threats and opportunities. Adequate and appropriate risk responses can minimize
individual and overall project threats and maximize individual and overall opportunities.
Types of risk response strategies include opportunity and threat acceptance or escalation,
opportunity enhancement, opportunity exploiting, opportunity sharing, threat mitigation,
threat avoidance, and threat transference.
⚫
Project resilience. Resiliency consists of the ability to absorb impacts and recover quickly
from setbacks or failures. Projects are not immune to unexpected disruptions, effects of
high-impact and low-probability events (black swan events), or emergent risks, which are
essentially unknowable within the context of portfolio, program, and project management
(unknown-unknowns). Incorporating resilience into project management is essential to
equip projects with the ability to anticipate, respond to, and recover from unexpected
disruptions. Embedding resilience ensures projects are robust enough to maintain
continuity and minimize the impact of adverse events. Reserve analysis is often related to
establishing project resilience (see Section 5 on Tools and Techniques).
⚫
Ambiguity and uncertainty. Ambiguity is a state of being unclear, of not knowing what to
expect or how to comprehend a situation. Ambiguity can arise from having many options
or a lack of clarity on the optimal choice. Unclear or misleading events, emerging issues, or
subjective situations can also lead to ambiguity. Uncertainty is the lack of understanding
and awareness of issues, events, paths to follow, or solutions to pursue. Uncertainty
deals with the probabilities of alternative actions, reactions, and outcomes. Uncertainty
includes emerging factors that are completely outside of existing knowledge or experience.
Ambiguous and uncertain situations do not always escalate into risks. As more information
becomes available and subject matter experts get involved, these situations can often be
resolved through a collaborative problem-solving process.
2.7.2 Processes
The Risk performance domain includes the processes required to conduct risk management
planning, identification, analysis, response planning, response implementation, and risk reviews on
a project. The objectives of this performance domain are to increase the probability and impact of
positive risks while decreasing the probability and impact of negative risks. This approach accelerates
project resilience, reduces uncertainty, and increases the chances of project success.
The following processes are included in the Risk performance domain (see Figure 2-47):
⚫
Plan Risk Management. The process of outlining how to conduct risk activities early in the
project, starting at project conception.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.