176
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Knowledge management tools and techniques include but are not limited to the following:
⚫ Networking, including informal social interaction and online social networking (Online
forums where people can ask open questions such as: “What does anyone know about . . .?”
are useful for starting knowledge-sharing conversations with specialists.);
⚫ Communities of practice (sometimes called communities of interest or just communities)
and special interest groups;
⚫ Work shadowing and reverse shadowing;
⚫ Discussion forums such as focus groups;
⚫ Knowledge-sharing events such as seminars and conferences;
⚫ Workshops, including problem-solving sessions and learning reviews designed to identify
lessons learned;
⚫ Creativity and idea management techniques;
⚫ Knowledge fairs and cafés; and
⚫ Training that involves interaction among learners.
Leadership. Leadership encompasses the knowledge, skills, and behaviors needed to guide,
motivate, and direct a team to help an organization achieve its business goals. These skills may
include demonstrating essential capabilities such as negotiation, resilience, communication,
problem-solving, critical thinking, and interpersonal skills. Projects are becoming increasingly more
complicated with more and more businesses executing their strategy through projects. Project
management is more than just working with numbers, templates, charts, graphs, and computing
systems. A common denominator in all projects is people. People can be counted, but they are
not numbers.
Leadership skills are useful for all project team members, whether the project team is operating in an
environment with a centralized authority or a shared leadership environment. The following sections
describe some of the traits and activities associated with leadership:
⚫
Establishing and maintaining vision. Every project has a purpose. Understanding that
purpose is critical for people to commit their time and energy in the right direction toward
achieving the project purpose. The project vision summarizes the project’s purpose
clearly and succinctly. The vision describes a realistic, attractive view of the future project
outcomes. In addition to briefly describing the desired future state, the vision is a powerful
motivational tool. It is a way to create passion and meaning for a project’s envisioned
goal. A common vision helps keep people pulling in the same direction. When immersed
in the details of everyday work, a clear understanding of the end goal can help guide local
decisions toward the desired project outcome.
◾ A vision developed collaboratively between project te am members and key
stakeholders should answer these questions:
▶ What is the project purpose?
▶ What defines successful project work?
▶ How will the future be better when the project outcomes are delivered?
▶ How will the project team know that it is drifting from the vision?
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.