26
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
such as interview bots, add new, strong capabilities in capturing and sharing both tacit and explicit
knowledge. An important objective of knowledge management is converting tacit knowledge into
explicit knowledge when possible.
Determining how and when lessons learned and retrospectives will be conducted throughout the
project helps support knowledge management. Identifying which information should be collected
both during the project and at its closure is essential. Additionally, project managers should establish
how historical information and lessons learned will be made available to benefit the current project
and future projects. When managing project knowledge, AI can be leveraged as a significant source
of knowledge. Significant risks are associated with the use of AI, including unintentionally exposing
sensitive information and experiencing AI hallucinations. Projects should have responsible AI policies
to manage the related knowledge.
Effective knowledge-sharing mechanisms foster a collaborative, evidence-based working environment
throughout the project. Through these mechanisms, valuable insights are captured, shared, and
utilized to enhance project outcomes and drive continuous improvement.
2.1.6.7 Monitor and Control Project Performance
Monitor and Control Project Performance is the process of tracking, reviewing, and reporting the
overall project progress to meet the performance objectives defined in the project management plan.
The key benefits of this process are that it allows stakeholders to understand the current state of the
project, recognize actions taken to address any performance issues, and gain visibility into the future
project status with cost and schedule forecasts (see Figure 2-9).
This process includes evaluating project performance during execution and assessing whether
decisions might enhance the project’s value proposition. If a decision is likely beneficial and results in
a change to the project baseline, integrated change control should be employed.
Monitoring is an ongoing aspect of project management performed throughout the project.
Monitoring involves collecting, measuring, and assessing data and trends to drive better project
outcomes, maintain project health, and identify areas needing special attention. Controlling involves
determining corrective or preventive actions, replanning, and following up on action plans to ensure
that performance issues are resolved. The Monitor and Control Project Performance process involves
the following:
⚫
Evaluating performance compared to plan;
⚫ Tracking the utilization of resources, work completed, budget expended, etc.;
⚫ Demonstrating accountability;
⚫ Providing information to stakeholders;
⚫ Assessing whether project deliverables are on track to deliver planned benefits;
⚫ Conducting conversations about trade-offs, threats, opportunities, and options;
⚫ Evaluating current risks, identifying new ones, and monitoring responses;
⚫ Ensuring project deliverables will meet the customer acceptance criteria; and
⚫ Updating the sourcing strategy to better meet project goals and constraints.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.