140
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Scope baseline. The scope baseline is the approved version of formal scope documents that can
be changed using formal change control procedures and is used as the basis for comparison to
actual results. The scope baseline may include the approved version of a scope statement, work
breakdown structure (WBS), and its associated WBS dictionary, and is a component of the project
management plan.
Components of the scope baseline include the following:
⚫
Project scope statement. The project scope statement includes the description of the
project scope, major deliverables, and exclusions.
⚫ WBS. The WBS is a hierarchical decomposition of the total scope of work to be carried
out by the project team to accomplish the project objectives and create the required
deliverables. Each descending level of the WBS represents an increasingly detailed
definition of the project work:
◾ Work package. The lowest level of the WBS is a work package with a unique identifier.
These identifiers provide a structure for hierarchical summation of costs, schedule,
and resource information and form a code of accounts. Each work package is part
of a control account. A control account is a management control point where the
scope, budget, and schedule are integrated and compared to the earned value for
performance measurement. A control account has two or more work packages, though
each work package is associated with a single control account.
◾ Planning package. A control account may include one or more planning packages.
A planning package is a WBS component below the control account and above the work
package with known work content but without detailed schedule activities.
⚫
WBS dictionary. The WBS dictionary is a document that provides detailed deliverable,
activity, scheduling, cost, and resource information about each component in the WBS. The
WBS dictionary is a document that supports the WBS. Most information included in the
WBS dictionary is created by other processes and added to this document at a later stage.
Information in the WBS dictionary may include but is not limited to the following:
◾ Code of account identifier,
◾ Description of work,
◾ Assumptions and constraints,
◾ Responsible organization,
◾ Schedule milestones,
◾ Associated schedule activities,
◾ Resources required,
◾ Cost estimates,
◾ Quality requirements,
◾ Acceptance criteria,
◾ Technical references, and
◾ Agreement information.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.