39
Section 3 – Project Management Principles
⚫ Integrated decision-making. Decisions are made considering the disparate perspectives
across the entire project ecosystem, ensuring that outputs lead to more sustainable and
effective outcomes.
⚫ Enhanced communication. Clear and consistent communication across all stakeholders
helps ensure that everyone is informed and aligned.
⚫ Managing uncertainty and complexity. In projects with high uncertainty, a holistic view
helps ensure that planning and execution incorporate techniques to progressively identify
and address sources of uncertainty and possible impacts that are likely to harm the
project’s value proposition. Similarly, for highly complex projects, a holistic approach seeks
to understand and simplify the intricate interdependencies within the project, uncovering
inherent simplicity.
⚫
Proactive and pragmatic risk management. By having a holistic view from the onset,
the project management team can have a wider and clearer understanding of the
interconnectedness of the project. Hence, the project management team is in a better
position for informed and timely decision-making to effectively and efficiently mitigate
threats while exploiting opportunities.
Having a holistic approach to sustainability can ensure that all aspects of the project are making a
positive contribution (or at least any negative contribution is quantified). This approach can relate
to the environmental cost/impact of the project activities as well as the environmental benefits (or
negative impacts) delivered by the project. This approach also aligns with the Integrate Sustainability
Within All Project Areas principle. By embracing a holistic view, project managers and stakeholders
can increase the likelihood of considering all aspects of the project, leading to better decision-making
and more effective project execution, which not only aligns with organizational goals but also fosters
resilience and adaptability, resulting in a successful project.
3.3.2 Principle in Action
To provide an example of this principle in action, consider a nonprofit, nongovernmental organization
(NGO) that is launching a project to promote public health practices in a local community, supported
by a dedicated volunteer team. Following a conventional, narrowly focused approach, the focus is on
creating educational materials and then organizing events. However, midway through the project,
the NGO learns of a local government initiative with similar goals, offering a funding grant for aligned
efforts. Recognizing the potential for greater impact, the team adapts their communications to align
with the government initiative, qualifying for the grant. While this introduces stricter policy and
communication constraints, the project now has more resources and broader reach, enabling the
NGO to make a more significant and lasting impact on public health in the community.
3.3.3 Connected Performance Domains
The Adopt a Holistic View principle interacts with and elevates the performance of all domains. By
applying this principle, each domain can be managed more effectively, helping to ensure a cohesive
and integrated approach to project management. This principle benefits each project management
performance domain in the following ways:
⚫
Governance. A holistic view promotes transparency and accountability, enabling informed,
data-driven decision-making based on a wider scope and impacts that can drive progress in
a manner that maximizes the positive impact from project investments for a given portfolio,
program, or project.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.