123
Section 4 – Inputs and Outputs
⚫ Client contract. Many projects are the result of a customer procurement effort, where the
performing organization serves as a vendor to a sponsor organization. Procurement is a
complementary discipline to project management and is further explored in Appendix X4.
Issue log. An issue log is a project document where information about issues is recorded and monitored.
Lessons learned register. A lessons learned register is a project document or repository used to
record knowledge gained during a project, phase, or iteration so that it can be used to improve future
performance for the team and the organization. Lessons learned from previous projects can be used
in the current project and entered into the lessons learned repository.
The lessons learned register may include the category and description of the situation. The register
may also include the impacts, recommendations, and proposed actions associated with the situation.
The lessons learned register records challenges, problems, realized risks and opportunities, or other
content as appropriate.
The lessons learned register is created as an output of the Manage Project Knowledge process
early in the project. Thereafter it is used as an input and updated as an output in many processes
throughout the project. The persons or teams involved in the work are also involved in capturing
the lessons learned. Knowledge can be documented using videos, pictures, audio, or other suitable
means that ensure the efficiency of the lessons captured.
At the end of a project or phase, the information is transferred to an organizational process asset
called a lessons learned repository.
Lessons learned updates. Lessons learned updates refer to the process of capturing, documenting,
and integrating knowledge gained during a project to improve future performance. This effort
involves identifying what went well, what did not, and how similar situations can be better managed
in future projects.
Make-or-buy analysis and decisions. Make-or-buy analysis is the decision-making process of
gathering and organizing data about product requirements and analyzing them against available
alternatives, including the purchase or internal manufacture of the product. A make-or-buy analysis
results in a make-or-buy decision as to whether particular work can be best accomplished by the
project team or if it should be purchased from outside sources.
Milestone list. A milestone list identifies all of the project milestones and indicates whether the
milestone is mandatory, such as those required by contract, or optional, such as those based on historical
information. Milestones have zero duration because they represent a significant point or event in a project.
Organizational capabilities. Organizational capabilities include all of the organizational policies,
ways of working, reporting structures, and attitudes that should be aligned to employ adaptive
methods successfully, as organizational capabilities influence the development approach.
Transitioning from predictive development approaches to adaptive approaches and then to
using agile methods is more than just stating that the organization has now become agile. The
transition entails shifting the mindset starting at the executive level and continuing throughout the
organization, as well as promoting and sustaining ongoing efforts to stay agile.
Organizational process assets (OPAs). Organizational process assets are plans, processes, policies,
procedures, regulations, and knowledge bases specific to and used by the performing organization.
These assets influence the management of the project.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.