185
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
This technique can produce higher levels of accuracy depending on the sophistication and underlying
data built into the model. Parametric schedule estimates can be applied to a total project or to
segments of a project, in conjunction with other estimating methods.
Performance reviews. Performance reviews measure, compare, and analyze actual performance of
work in progress on the project against the schedule baseline, such as actual start and finish dates,
percent complete, and remaining duration for work in progress.
Political awareness. Political awareness helps project managers to plan communications based
on the project environment as well as their organization’s political environment. Political awareness
concerns the recognition of formal and informal power relationships and the willingness to operate
within these structures. Aspects of political awareness include the following:
⚫
Understanding the strategies of the organization,
⚫ Knowing who wields power and influence in this arena, and
⚫ Developing an ability to communicate with these stakeholders.
Preassignment. When physical or team resources for a project are determined in advance, they
are considered preassigned. This situation can occur if the project is the result of specific resources
being identified as part of a competitive proposal or if the project is dependent upon the expertise
of particular persons. Preassignment might also include the team members who have already been
assigned in Initiating or in other processes before the initial resource management plan has been
completed.
Precedence diagramming method. Precedence diagramming method is a technique used for
constructing a schedule model in which activities are represented by nodes and are graphically
linked by one or more logical relationships to show the sequence in which the activities are to be
performed.
Precedence diagramming method includes four types of dependencies or logical relationships.
A predecessor activity is an activity that logically comes before a dependent activity in a schedule.
A successor activity is a dependent activity that logically comes after another activity in a schedule.
These relationships are as follows and are illustrated in Figure 5-13:
⚫
Finish-to-start (FS). A logical relationship in which a successor activity cannot start until
a predecessor activity has finished. For example, installing the operating system on a PC
(successor) cannot start until the PC hardware is assembled (predecessor).
⚫
Finish-to-finish (FF). A logical relationship in which a successor activity cannot finish until
a predecessor activity has finished. For example, writing a document (predecessor) is
required to finish before editing the document (successor) can finish.
⚫
Start-to-start (SS). A logical relationship in which a successor activity cannot start until a
predecessor activity has started. For example, leveling concrete (successor) cannot begin
until pouring the foundation (predecessor) begins.
⚫
Start-to-finish (SF). A logical relationship in which a successor activity cannot finish until a
predecessor activity has started.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.