30
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
When applicable, a change control board (CCB) or project board may be involved. The CCB is a
formally established group responsible for reviewing, evaluating, approving, deferring, or rejecting
changes—and for documenting and communicating these decisions. While awaiting the decision
of the CCB, project managers should continually execute planned tasks while also analyzing the
impact and risks related to accepting or rejecting the proposed changes to minimize negative
impacts.
Approved change requests may require new or updated cost estimates, schedule adjustments,
resource requirements, and risk assessments. These changes may also require updates to the
project management plan and other project documents. Depending on the nature of the change,
customer or sponsor approval may be required after CCB approval, unless the customer or sponsor
is a CCB member.
Changes are made to create improvements to the original plan and baseline, often based on
changing conditions. The results of the changes should be monitored to ensure they yield the desired
results.
2.1.6.8.2 Adaptive Approaches
In adaptive approaches, managing project changes typically involves backlog management
rather than a formal change request process. Changes are continuously assessed and prioritized
throughout the iterative development cycle. When a stakeholder proposes a change, it is recorded as
a product backlog item and added to the backlog. Although these are not formally termed as change
requests, an impact analysis is conducted to evaluate the change’s effect and set its priority.
Typically, there is not a formal “approval” process; instead, any proposed change can be added to the
backlog. If the proposed change is assigned a lower priority, this essentially means that the change
is deferred. Conversely, choosing not to add a change to the backlog, or remove an existing change
from the backlog, means that it is rejected.
Figure 2-11. Example Flow for Project Changes
Scope
Finance
Schedule
Resources
Stakeholders
Risk
Change Request
Corrective Action
Preventive Action
Defect Repair
Update
Decision
Approved
Rejected
Deferred
More Information
Integrated Change Control
Impact
Analysis
Scope
Finance
Schedule
Resources
Stakeholders
Risk
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.