115
Section 4 – Inputs and Outputs
⚫ Release backlog. A release backlog is a subset of the product backlog that includes items
planned for a specific release. The release backlog helps organize the work to be delivered
at the end of a release cycle, which may encompass multiple sprints or iterations.
The project team determines the scope they can achieve based on the prioritized backlog, estimates
the work involved, and works collaboratively throughout the iteration to develop the scope.
Basis of estimates. The basis of estimates is the supporting documentation that outlines the details
used in establishing the project estimates such as assumptions, constraints, levels of detail, ranges,
and confidence levels.
Regardless of the level of detail, the basis of estimates should provide a clear and complete
understanding of how an estimate was derived. Documentation may include how the basis of
estimate was developed, assumptions made, known constraints, range of possible estimates
(e.g., ±10%), confidence level of the final estimate, and individual project risks influencing the estimate.
Benefits management plan. The benefits management plan is the documented explanation defining
the processes for creating, maximizing, and sustaining the benefits provided by a program or project.
The benefits management plan is the document that describes how and when the benefits of the
project will be delivered and the mechanisms that should be in place to measure those benefits.
A project benefit is an outcome of actions, behaviors, products, services, or results that provides
value to the sponsoring organization as well as to the project’s intended beneficiaries. Development
of the plan begins early in the project life cycle with the definition of the target benefits. The plan
describes key elements of the benefits and may include the following:
⚫
Target benefits. The expected tangible and intangible value to be gained by the
implementation of the project; financial value may be expressed as net present value (NPV).
⚫
Strategic alignment. The alignment of the project to the business strategies of the organization.
⚫ Timeframe for realizing benefits. The length of time to realize benefits, for example,
short term, long term, ongoing, or by phase.
⚫
Benefits owner. The person accountable for monitoring, recording, and reporting realized
benefits throughout the timeframe established in the plan.
⚫
Metrics. The direct and indirect measures used to determine the benefits realized.
⚫ Assumptions. The factors expected to be in place or to be in evidence.
⚫ Risks. The risks that pertain to the realization of benefits.
The data and information that are documented in the business case and needs assessment are
used to develop the benefits management plan. The benefits management plan and the project
management plan include a description of how the business value resulting from the project
becomes part of the organization’s ongoing operations, including the metrics to be used. The metrics
provide verification of the business value and validation of the project’s success.
Development and maintenance of the benefits management plan is an iterative activity. The benefits
management plan complements the business case, project charter, and project management plan.
The project manager works with the sponsor to ensure that the project charter, project management
plan, and benefits management plan remain in alignment throughout the life cycle of the project.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.