149
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
confusion, it is important to distinguish between the product backlog, which contains the complete
list of desired features and changes for the product, and the sprint backlog, which includes only the
subset of items selected for delivery in a specific iteration.
In adaptive approaches, backlog management is the technique used to manage changes. The list
of backlog items is ranked in order of business value or importance to the customer and sized
by the development team so that the highest value items are selected and delivered in the next
development cycle. Dependencies and constraints are also taken into account, which could impact
the order of the new item and changes in the backlog.
Backlog refinement. Backlog refinement is the progressive elaboration of the content in the backlog
and reprioritization of it to identify the work that can be accomplished in an upcoming iteration. This
technique is used mostly within adaptive development approaches. Backlog refinement involves
constantly reviewing, revising, ranking, and editing the product backlog in order to build features that
are needed by the business and the customer. During a backlog refinement meeting, the backlog is
elaborated and reprioritized to identify the work that can be accomplished during the upcoming iteration.
Benchmarking. Benchmarking is the comparison of actual or planned products, processes, and
practices to those of comparable organizations to identify good practices, generate ideas for
improvement, and provide a basis for measuring performance. Benchmarked projects may exist
within the performing organization or outside of it, or can be within the same application area
or other application area. Benchmarking allows analogies to be made for projects in different
application areas or industries.
Bottom-up estimating. Bottom-up estimating is a method of estimating the duration, cost,
or required resources by aggregating the estimates of the lower-level components of the work
breakdown structure (WBS). When an activity’s duration cannot be estimated with a reasonable
degree of confidence, the work within the activity is decomposed into more detail. The detailed
durations are estimated. These estimates are then aggregated into a total quantity for each of the
activity’s durations. Activities may or may not have dependencies between them that can affect
the application and use of resources. If there are dependencies, this pattern of resource usage is
reflected and documented in the estimated requirements of the activity.
Brainstorming. The brainstorming technique is used to identify a list of ideas in a short period of
time. Brainstorming is conducted in a group environment and is led by a facilitator. The technique
comprises two parts: idea generation and analysis. Brainstorming can be used to gather data and
solutions or ideas from stakeholders, subject matter experts, and team members.
Brainstorming techniques. There are many brainstorming techniques, including the following:
⚫
Brain-netting, or virtual brainstorming, uses a digital collaboration platform, documents
stored on a cloud or server, or other online tools in order to generate and prioritize ideas,
discussing the advantages and disadvantages of specific topics. Anonymous idea sharing
can be included as well.
⚫
Brainwriting encourages everyone in the brainstorming session to participate and write
their ideas down before sharing them with other team members. Later, the facilitator
collects the ideas and shares them or asks others to share and discuss them with the group.
⚫
Idea napkin involves documenting ideas in five steps on a napkin. The five steps include
such topics as people, offering, customer, value proposition, and core competencies.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.