29
Section 2 – A System for Value Delivery
project management lies in the characteristics of the project itself rather than the title of the
individual overseeing it. It is crucial for any person fulfilling this function, regardless of their official
position, to embrace the core aspects of project management to steer projects toward success.
Varying examples of these agile roles are described in the PMI Disciplined Agile
® (DA®) tool kit [3].
2.5.1.1 Interaction Between the Project Management Team and Project Aspects
The engagement of a project management team in project tasks is pivotal in bringing focus and clarity
to the work. A competent project management team should manage needs and tasks effectively,
prioritizing the items that are most urgent and important, and allocating attention accordingly.
This prioritization helps ensure that resources are optimized and that critical project milestones
are met on schedule. The project management team’s presence catalyzes progress and efficiency,
maintaining project momentum through strategic oversight, effective communication, and resource
management.
There are many leadership styles that members of a project management team can adopt based
on the individuals, situations, team structures, stakeholders, and organizational processes and
culture. Leaders should be versatile and able to switch between different leadership styles to
achieve a better outcome. The project management team proactively interacts and negotiates
with other project management teams, portfolio managers, program managers, project
managers, and functional managers for demands on critical resources, priorities on project
funding, receipt or distribution of deliverables, and in aligning project goals and objectives with
those of the organization.
Interacting with others helps to create a positive influence for fulfilling a project’s various needs and
for sharing experiences and addressing challenges, as a project management team works with and in
different areas, departments, industries, and locations. The project management team usually works
with the project sponsor, customer, product manager, or product owner to address internal political
and strategic issues that may impact the team or the viability or quality of the project or product. The
skills of the project management team, due to the complexity of the function and the increasing need
for versatility and flexibility, are a mix of different skills such as ways of working, power skills, and
business acumen, with a sole aim of accomplishing tasks without compromising their professional
and social responsibility to the profession and society at large.
In the context of leadership styles, situational leadership is particularly relevant for project
management teams. This approach emphasizes the importance of flexibility and adaptability in
leadership based on the evolving demands of the project. A project management team should
adjust its leadership style to suit the specific needs of the team, the time sensitivity of tasks, and
the complexity of the project. Whether it involves shifting from a more directive approach during
critical project phases to a supportive style when team autonomy is beneficial, the ability to adapt
one’s leadership style is crucial for navigating the diverse challenges that projects typically present.
Figure 2-7 represents the competencies that a project management team should have to fulfill the
project outcomes in a successful way.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.