272
project success. The consensus view across intended beneficiaries, other stakeholders, and project
participants that a project was perceived to have delivered value that was worth the effort and
expense.
project team. A set of individuals performing the work of the project to achieve its objectives.
prototype. A working model used to obtain early feedback on the expected product before actually
building it.
quality. The degree to which a set of inherent characteristics of a project deliverable helps to meet or
exceed the project’s target objectives.
register. A written record of regular entries for evolving aspects of a project, such as risks,
stakeholders, or defects.
regulations. Requirements imposed by a governmental body. These requirements can establish
product, process, or service characteristics, including applicable administrative provisions that have
government-mandated compliance.
release. One or more components of one or more products, which are intended to be put into
production at the same time.
release planning. The process of identifying a high-level plan for releasing or transitioning a product,
deliverable, or increment of value.
report. A formal record or summary of information.
requirement. A condition or capability that is necessary to be present in a product, service, or result
to satisfy a business need.
reserve. A provision in the project management plan to mitigate cost and/or schedule risk, often
used with a modifier (e.g., management reserve, contingency reserve) to provide further detail on
what types of risk are meant to be mitigated.
responsibility. An assignment that can be delegated within a portfolio, program, or project
management plan such that the assigned resource incurs a duty to perform the requirements of the
assignment.
result. An output from performing project management processes and activities.
rework. Action taken to bring a defective or nonconforming component into compliance with
requirements or specifications.
risk. An uncertain event or condition that, if it occurs, has a positive or negative effect on one or
more portfolio, program, or project objectives. See also issue, opportunity, and threat.
risk acceptance. A risk response strategy that involves acknowledging the risk and taking no action
unless it occurs. Acceptance of the risk’s implication(s) usually means using schedule and/or cost
reserves and accepting scope and/or quality reduction(s). See also risk avoidance, risk enhancement,
risk escalation, risk exploiting, risk mitigation, risk sharing, and risk transference.
risk appetite. The degree of uncertainty an organization or individual is willing to accept in
anticipation of a reward. See also risk threshold.
risk avoidance. A risk response strategy that involves eliminating the threat or protecting the
portfolio, program, or project from its impact. See also risk acceptance, risk enhancement, risk
escalation, risk exploiting, risk mitigation, risk sharing, and risk transference.
risk breakdown structure (RBS). A hierarchical representation of potential sources of risks.
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.