55
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
⚫ Conducting retrospective s (scheduled reviews to record lessons learned) for correcting
processes and improving them, if required;
⚫ Reprioritizing the remaining work plan (backlog);
⚫ Determining the rate at which the deliverables are produced, validated, and accepted
(velocity) in the given time per iteration (agreed-upon work cycle duration, typically 2 weeks
or 1 month);
⚫ Determining that the pro ject schedule has changed; and
⚫ Managing the actual chan ges as they occur.
When work is being contracted, regular and milestone status updates from contractors and suppliers
are a means of ensuring that the work is progressing as agreed to ensure that the schedule is under
control. Scheduled status reviews and walkthroughs are expected to help ensure that the contractor’s
reports are accurate and complete.
2.3.3 Tailoring Considerations
Project managers may need to tailor and adapt the way that a project’s schedule management
processes are applied. Considerations for tailoring include but are not limited to life cycle and
development approach selection, product and deliverable attributes, project team attributes,
culture, project environments, scheduling approaches and methods, and trends and emerging
practices.
2.3.3.1 Life Cycle and Development Approach Selection
The choice of project life cycle and development approach can significantly influence how scheduling
processes are tailored and applied throughout the project as follows:
⚫
Predictive life cycle. In a predictive life cycle, the schedule is typically defined up front.
Detailed planning and sequencing of tasks are done at the beginning, the project baseline
is created and approved, and changes are less frequent. Usually, the changes to the project
baseline are conducted through formal change management procedures. Tailoring in this
context involves setting a comprehensive timeline with clear milestones, dependencies, and
critical paths.
⚫
Adaptive life cycle. In adaptive projects, schedules are more flexible. The project is divided
into sprints or iterations with short-term planning horizons. Tailoring in adaptive projects
involves creating timeboxed schedules that can adapt to changes in the project scope and
priorities.
⚫
Hybrid life cycle. In a hybrid development approach, scheduling combines the flexibility
of adaptive methods with the structured planning of a predictive approach. The high-level
project schedule is planned to use predictive techniques to outline key milestones and
deliverables. Within this framework, the subordinate project streams can use adaptive or
predictive methods depending on their characteristics. Adaptive sprints or iterations are
used to manage the detailed execution of project components with a high rate of change
in requirements, allowing for adaptability and the frequent reassessment of priorities.
Other components may use Kanban or the critical path method. This approach can help
ensure that the overall project stays on track and that teams can respond quickly to
changes and continuously improve the deliverables.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.