8
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Performance domains run concurrently throughout the project life cycle, regardless of how value
is delivered (frequently, periodically, or at the end of the project). For example, project leaders are
focused on stakeholders, schedules, and so forth, from the project’s outset to its closure. These
areas of focus are not addressed as siloed efforts because they overlap and interconnect. The ways
in which the performance domains relate are different for each project environment, but they are
always present.
Each performance domain is presented with the following primary subsections:
⚫
Key Concepts—Performance domains encompass a broad discipline of methods and
approaches. This broadness often creates a challenge regarding where project leaders
should begin and what they should do next. Each of the performance domains begins with
a treatise of the most important ideas, considerations, and concepts for its area. These
concepts are often the first discussions for project management efforts and inform the
decisions regarding when and how performance domain activities should be practiced.
⚫
Processes—The project management activities in each performance domain can be
described in various ways such as formal policies and informal procedures. Regardless of
how teams and organizations define their project management activities, it is helpful to
review the industry’s common practices for a given domain.
Accordingly, this guide presents 40 processes to describe the underlying mechanics of performance
domain activities. Each process lists a sampling of inputs, tools and techniques, and outputs.
Given the diversity of project management practice in today’s industry, these processes and their
associated lists are illustrative but not comprehensive. Instead, they offer a technical description of
project management and are not intended as a prescriptive framework or methodology.
Several artifacts and approaches are used in multiple processes. Therefore, this section focuses on
how inputs, tools and techniques, and outputs are leveraged in the context of a given performance
domain. Further technical details of those elements are captured in Section 4, Inputs and Outputs,
and Section 5, Tools and Techniques.
The performance domain processes are listed in Table 2-1, along with their relationships to the
Project Management Focus Areas: Initiating, Planning, Executing, Monitoring and Controlling, and
Closing.
⚫
Tailoring Considerations—Since all projects are executed in a unique environment,
project management activities should be adjusted to fit the characteristics and environment
of a given project. In addition to the formal guidance in the project tailoring section, each
performance domain offers areas to review. Tailoring considerations should be applied
to the corresponding project management activities to ensure alignment with the project
objectives, even if those activities are defined per policies, practices, or procedures.
⚫
Interactions With Other Domains—While all seven performance domains are interrelated
with one another, the specific connections among them are also important. Accordingly,
each performance domain highlights overlaps, dependencies, or relationships that
practitioners should consider.
⚫
Check Results—Project success requires a focus on value delivery, emphasizing
meaningful outcomes over just outputs. Project management activities do not provide value
by themselves. Rather, they are performed with the intent of delivering and maximizing
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.