61
Section 4 – Project Life Cycles
4.2.1 Predictive Approaches
A predictive approach may be optimal when the project scope can be stabilized early in the project. A
predictive approach may also be referred to as a waterfall, plan-driven, or traditional approach. This
approach is also suitable for large projects involving significant investment or regulatory oversight.
These conditions may require robust change control mechanisms and planned reevaluation between
successive phases. The scope, schedule, cost, resource needs, quality requirements, and risks can be
well defined in the early phases of the project life cycle and are expected to remain relatively stable.
This development approach allows the project team to capture reliable certainty early in the project
and to perform much of the planning up front (see Figure 4-4).
For projects or phases in which the cost of iterating far exceeds its value, such as the build phase
of many construction projects, a predictive approach may be optimal. Similarly, for projects in
heavily regulated environments, such as healthcare, there may be phase gates required in order
for regulators to carefully assess whether, for instance, a new drug treatment or medical device has
demonstrated sufficient promise to merit further development.
In certain predictive approaches, it may be optimal to deliver the product partially and incrementally,
rather than as a single, final release. An incremental approach is used when the overall scope is well
understood and planned up front, but phased delivery offers advantages due to the size, complexity,
or specific risk factors of the project environment. In this approach, the project is divided into
different phases or increments, with each phase or increment delivering a part of the overall product.
Each increment builds upon the previous one, progressively adding features and functionality or
completing parts of the product (see Figure 4-5). The increments may be sequential or overlap and
the phases in each increment may differ, depending on the nature of the work. While stakeholder
value is realized earlier through partial delivery, the overall scope and timeline remain largely fixed.
This approach allows stakeholders to use and benefit from parts of the product before the entire
project is completed and can often enhance the value proposition of the project while still adhering
to the predictive framework of structured planning and controlled change management.
Schedule
Scope
Budget
When budget and schedule are ﬁxed,
unexpected changes can be managed
by varying scope
Schedule
Scope
Budget
Fixed
Variable Variable Variable
Fixed Fixed
When scope is ﬁxed, unexpected
changes can be managed by altering
budget or schedule
Figure 4-3. Constraint Options for Adaptive Approaches
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.