200
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
⚫ Knowledge. The person may have specialist knowledge, which can benefit the project
through more effective delivery of project objectives, organizational outcomes, or
knowledge of the power structures of the organization.
⚫
Contribution. The person may provide funds or other resources, including human
resources, or offer support for the project in more intangible ways, such as advocacy in the
form of promoting the objectives of the project or acting as a buffer between the project
and the power structures of the organization and its politics.
Stakeholder engagement assessment matrix. A stakeholder engagement assessment matrix is a
matrix that compares current and desired stakeholder engagement levels. One way to classify the
engagement level of stakeholders is shown in Figure 5-23. The engagement level of stakeholders can
be classified as follows:
⚫
Unaware. The stakeholder is unaware of the project and its potential impacts.
⚫ Resistant. The stakeholder is aware of the project and potential impacts but resistant
to any changes that may occur as a result of the work or outcomes of the project. These
stakeholders will be unsupportive of the work or outcomes of the project.
⚫
Neutral. The stakeholder is aware of the project but neither supportive nor unsupportive.
⚫ Supportive. The stakeholder is aware of the project and its potential impacts and
supportive of the work and its outcomes.
⚫
Leading. The stakeholder is aware of the project and its potential impacts and actively
engaged in ensuring that the project is a success.
In Figure 5-23, C represents the current engagement level of each stakeholder and D indicates the
level that the project team has assessed as essential to ensure project success (desired). The gap
between current and desired for each stakeholder will direct the level of communications necessary
to effectively engage the stakeholder. The closing of this gap between current and desired is an
essential element of monitoring stakeholder engagement.
Stakeholder mapping/representation. Stakeholder mapping and representation is a method
of categorizing stakeholders using various methods. Categorizing stakeholders assists the team
in building relationships with the identified project stakeholders. Common methods include the
following:
⚫
Power/interest grid, power/influence grid, or impact/influence grid. Each of these
techniques supports a grouping of stakeholders according to their level of authority (power),
level of concern about the project’s outcomes (interest), ability to influence the outcomes
Figure 5-23. Stakeholder Engagement Assessment Matrix
Stakeholder Unaware Resistant Neutral Supportive Leading
Stakeholder 1
Stakeholder 2
Stakeholder 3
C
CD
D C
D
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.