37
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
Table 2-5. Check Outcomes—Governance Performance Domain
Outcome Check
Projects have an appro-
priate level of oversight by
leadership and third-party
stakeholders.
Project teams understand there are agreed-upon processes, protocols, team
agreements, or other forms of project governance in tasks in which they are
involved. These agreed-upon processes are documented (as appropriate) and
aligned with the other organizational governance artifacts (policies, standards,
procedures, etc.).
Project governance pro-
cesses are in place, effec-
tive, and continuously
improved throughout the
project.
Project teams have awareness of—and act appropriately on—governance
structure (policies, standards, procedures, guidelines); internal and external
auditing/compliance; and customer governance requirements.
Project teams ensure that governance of interactions comes from both
organizational and third-party governance and is integrated within project
governance.
The project team may check governance using instruments such as compliance
audits or checklists against internal or external standards/benchmarks for
predictive approaches.
Project teams may ensure that the governance checklist is used regularly,
timeboxing is in place, and meetings are held.
Effective signaling
mechanisms tied to target
project outcomes are in
place.
Project teams select and use one or more signaling mechanisms that will
align most closely to how the project can maximize its value proposition.
Lessons learned/
retrospectives are
managed throughout the
project.
Project teams ensure that the project and organizational knowledge and
learning are combined to manage project deliverables and value. Lessons
learned are incorporated during the ongoing processes, not only at the end of
the project.
Key management mem-
bers are kept apprised of
the project.
Project metrics are in place and tracked regularly.
Project teams focus efforts on:
⚫  Operational status and progress of project components and related
activities;
⚫ Expected and incurred project resource requirements;
⚫ Known project risks, their response plans, and escalation criteria;
⚫ Strategic and operational assumptions;
⚫ Benefits realized;
⚫ Decision criteria, tracking, and communication;
⚫ Project change control;
⚫ Compliance with corporate and legal policies;
⚫ Project information and communications management;
⚫ Issues and issue response plans; and
⚫ Project funding and financial performance.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.