58
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
2.4 Finance Performance Domain
The Finance performance domain addresses processes and tools related to the use and allocation
of monetary resources, both internally and externally, to the performing organization. Financial
performance relates to the costs, funding, and, in some cases, the value proposition of the project.
Processes described in this performance domain include planning, estimating, budgeting, financing,
funding, managing, measuring, and controlling costs so the project can optimize value for the
organization.
Having timely and accurate information about project work and performance allows the project team
to learn and determine the appropriate actions needed to address current or expected variances from
the desired performance. Financial measures are used for multiple reasons, including the following:
⚫
Evaluating performance compared to the plan;
⚫ Tracking the utilization of resources, work completed, budget expended, etc.;
⚫ Demonstrating accountability;
Outcome Check
Scheduling approaches are consis-
tent with the project deliverables.
Align the schedule with the development approach for deliverables
(predictive, adaptive, or hybrid).
The project life cycle consists of pha-
ses that connect the delivery of busi-
ness and stakeholder value from the
beginning to the end of the project.
Represent the project work—from project launch to close—in
project phases. Ensure the phases include the appropriate exit
criteria.
A holistic approach to delivering the
project outcomes is developed.
Select and develop a delivery schedule that demonstrates that the
project is planned in a holistic manner with no gaps or areas of
misalignment.
Schedule documentation is
complete.
Ensure that the schedule documentation includes all essential ele-
ments, such as task dependencies, durations, resource allocations,
and milestones, based on the development approach selected.
Scheduling tools and techniques are
used.
Monitor whether the team employed appropriate scheduling tools
(e.g., project management software) and techniques (e.g., critical
path method) during the schedule development.
Stakeholders are involved in the
schedule development.
Check the level of participation from key stakeholders (e.g., client,
team members) during the scheduling process. Low involvement
may lead to an unrealistic or poorly developed schedule.
Sufficient buffers are built in for
known-unknowns.
Check that major project constraints and known risks are factored
into the project schedule by providing sufficient floats, contingency
reserves, or alternate activity network strategies such as second-
ary plans.
Table 2-7. Check Outcomes—Schedule Performance Domain
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.