203
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
Strategies for overall project risk. Risk responses should be planned and implemented not only for
individual project risks but also to address overall project risk. The same risk response strategies that
are used to deal with individual project risks can also be applied to overall project risk:
⚫ Avoid. Where the level of overall project risk is significantly negative and outside the
agreed-upon risk thresholds for the project, an avoid strategy may be adopted. This strategy
involves taking focused action to reduce the negative effect of uncertainty on the project as
a whole and bring the project back within the thresholds. An example of avoidance at the
overall project level might include removal of high-risk elements of scope from the project.
Where it is not possible to bring the project back within the thresholds, the project may be
canceled. This strategy represents the most extreme degree of risk avoidance, and it should
be used only if the overall level of threat is, and will remain, unacceptable.
⚫
Exploit. Where the level of overall project risk is significantly positive and outside the
agreed-upon risk thresholds for the project, an exploit strategy may be adopted. This
strategy involves taking focused action to capture the positive effect of uncertainty on
the project as a whole. An example of exploiting at the overall project level might include
the addition of high-benefit elements of scope to the project to add value or benefits to
stakeholders. Alternatively, the risk thresholds for the project may be modified with the
agreement of key stakeholders in order to embrace the opportunity.
⚫
Transfer/share. If the level of overall project risk is high but the organization is unable
to address it effectively, a third party may be involved to manage the risk on behalf of the
organization. Where overall project risk is negative, a transfer strategy is required, which
may involve payment of a risk premium. In the case of a high positive overall project risk,
ownership may be shared in order to reap the associated benefits. Examples of both
transfer and share strategies for overall project risk include but are not limited to setting
up a collaborative business structure in which the buyer and seller share the overall project
risk, launching a joint venture or special-purpose company, or subcontracting key elements
of the project.
⚫
Mitigate/enhance. These strategies involve changing the level of overall project risk to
optimize the chances of achieving the project’s objectives. The risk mitigation strategy
is used where overall project risk is negative, and risk enhancement applies when it is
positive. Examples of mitigation or enhancement strategies include replanning the project,
changing the scope and boundaries of the project, modifying project priority, changing
resource allocations, adjusting delivery times, etc.
⚫
Accept. Where no proactive risk response strategy is possible to address overall project
risk, the organization may choose to continue with the project as currently defined, even
if overall project risk is outside the agreed-upon thresholds. Risk acceptance can be either
active or passive. The most common active acceptance strategy is to establish an overall
contingency reserve for the project, including amounts of time, money, or resources to be
used if the project exceeds its thresholds. Passive acceptance involves no proactive action
apart from periodic review of the level of overall project risk to ensure that it does not
change significantly.
Strategies for threats. There are five alternative strategies that may be considered for dealing with
threats, as follows:
⚫
Escalate. Risk escalation is appropriate when the project team or project sponsor agrees
that a threat is outside the scope of the project or that the proposed response would
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.