117
Section 4 – Inputs and Outputs
actions, preventive actions, defect repairs, or updates that reflect modified or additional ideas or
content. Other change requests cover the needed preventive or corrective actions to eliminate or
minimize a negative impact later in the project.
Any stakeholder may request a change. Change requests are processed for review and disposition
through the Assess and Implement Changes process.
Communications management plan. The communications management plan is a component
of the portfolio, program, or project management plan that describes how, when, and by whom
information will be administered and disseminated. The communications management plan
describes how project communications will be planned, structured, implemented, and monitored for
effectiveness. The plan contains, but is not limited to, the following information:
⚫
Stakeholder communication requirements;
⚫ Information to be communicated, including language, format, content, and level of detail;
⚫ Escalation processes;
⚫ Reason for the distribution of that information;
⚫ Timeframe and frequency for the distribution of required information and receipt of
acknowledgment or response, if applicable;
⚫ Person responsible for communicating the information;
⚫ Person responsible for authorizing release of confidential information;
⚫ Person or groups that will receive the information, including information about their needs,
requirements, and expectations;
⚫ Methods or technologies used to convey the information, such as memos, emails, press
releases, or social media announcements;
⚫ Resources allocated for communication activities, including time and budget;
⚫ Method for updating and refining the communications management plan as the project
progresses and develops, such as when the stakeholder community changes as the project
moves through different phases;
⚫
Glossary of common terminology;
⚫ Flowcharts of the information flow in the project, workflows with possible sequence of
authorization, list of reports, meeting plans, etc.; and
⚫ Constraints derived from specific legislation or regulations, technologies, organizational
policies, etc.
The communications management plan may include guidelines and templates for project status
meetings, project team meetings, virtual meetings, and email messages. The use of a project website
and project management software can be included if these are to be used in the project.
The communications management plan is both an input and an output that plays a crucial role in ensuring
the smooth execution and delivery of a project. As an input, it serves as a guideline for the project team on
how to disseminate information effectively. The communications management plan outlines:
⚫
Who needs to receive information (stakeholders, team members, etc.);
⚫ What information needs to be communicated (project updates, risks, changes, etc.);Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.