60
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
the performing organization to acquire, upgrade, and maintain physical assets such as
property, plants, buildings, technology, or equipment. OpEx are intended funds for the
ongoing costs of running the day-to-day business activities or operations. These expenses
typically include advertising expenses, administration fees, wages, rent, and utility costs.
In some cases, the total amount of OpEx can influence the financial results of the whole
organization. In other cases, the budget is allocated annually and therefore has to be
used within the year, with no possibility of being transferred to the next year. In projects
that implement an agile approach, the budget can be allocated for a quarter and then
revised quarterly. This allocation allows more flexibility in terms of budget, based on the
amount of work achieved.
⚫
Project budget. Project budget buildup depends on organizational process assets (OPAs),
policies, governance, portfolio practices, and financial management practices within
the organization. The project budget can also be influenced by external regulations,
compliance, accounting principles, or industry standards applicable to the organization,
leading to significant variations. In one scenario, the initial project budget may contain the
sum of approved work package cost estimates, contingency reserve, and management
reserve, with reserves managed implicitly. In another scenario, the initial project budget
may contain the sum of approved work cost estimates, while contingency reserve and
management reserve are managed explicitly. Figure 2-25 illustrates the two possible budget
buildup scenarios. However, variations may exist based on organizational preferences or
external influences.
⚫
Cost baseline. Similar to a project budget, the cost baseline may vary depending on
organizational preferences or external factors. The cost baseline is the approved version
of the time-phased project budget, excluding any management reserves, which can
be changed only through formal change control procedures and is used as a basis for
comparison to actual results. Alternatively, the cost baseline may be the approved version
of the time-phased initial project budget, excluding both contingency and management
reserves, which can be changed only through formal change control procedures and is used
as a basis for comparison to actual results. Figure 2-25 presents two possible scenarios: one
including contingency reserve in the cost baseline (left side) and one excluding contingency
reserve (right side).
⚫
Reserves. A reserve is a provision in the project management plan to mitigate cost and/or
schedule risks, often used with a modifier (e.g., management reserve, contingency reserve)
to provide further detail on what types of risk are meant to be mitigated. Contingency
reserves and management reserves are distinct in their purpose and authority of usage
and may differ on risk classification (known-unknowns or unknown-unknowns). For more
information, see the Risk performance domain in Section 2.7. The contingency reserve is
the time or money allocated in the schedule or cost baseline for known risks with active
response strategies and is usually allocated in the initial project budget (see Figure 2-25, left
side). However, based on different organizational preferences or external factors, it may be
outside the initial project budget (see Figure 2-25, right side). The management reserve is
time or money that management sets aside in addition to the schedule or cost baseline and
releases for unforeseen work that is within the scope of the portfolio, program, or project.
This reserve is used for unknown-unknowns rather than specific, identified risks. Typically,
management reserves are realized at the discretion of senior leadership or management.
However, in some organizations, it may be at the discretion of the project manager or
project management team.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.