26
2.4.3 Facilitate and Support
Facilitation and support within a project involve providing oversight, coordination, and encouragement
that are tailored to the needs of the project. The work involves encouraging project team member
participation, collaboration, a collective sense of responsibility for the work output, and shared
motivation in pursuit of the target outcome. Facilitation helps the project team to create consensus
around solutions, resolve conflicts, and make decisions. Facilitation may also be used to coordinate
meetings and contribute in an unbiased way to the advancement of project objectives. Supporting people
through change and helping to address obstacles that can prevent the team from achieving project
success should also be part of this function. Roles such as project managers, scrum masters, team leads,
business analysts, and change management specialists are examples of individuals who commonly
perform these facilitation and support functions. This support may include evaluating performance and
providing individuals and project teams with feedback to help them learn, adapt, and improve.
2.4.4 Perform Work
The people performing this function provide the knowledge, skills, and experience necessary to deliver
products and realize the outcomes of projects. Work can be full time or part time for the duration of the
project or for a limited period, and the work can be colocated or virtual, depending on the environmental
factors. Additionally, projects may harness automation and artificial intelligence to streamline project
execution, reduce human error, and enhance productivity. For more information on colocation and
virtual collaboration tools, please refer to the tools and techniques detailed within Section 5 of A Guide
to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK
® Guide) [2]. Some work may be highly specialized,
while other work may be performed by project team members who have broad skill sets.
2.4.5 Apply Expertise
Applying expertise within a project involves contributing specialized knowledge, vision, and skills in a
specific subject area. Experts provide advice and support across the organization, enhancing the project
team’s learning process and improving the accuracy and quality of their work. Experts can also help identify
uncertainties and blind spots, and eventually evaluate project progress and ultimate success. These
experts can be internal team members or external specialists brought in for the entire project duration or
specific timeframes. The unique mix of skills and knowledge provided by experts and other team members
often accelerates progress and helps ensure that projects achieve their intended outcomes efficiently.
2.4.6 Provide Organizational Direction and Insight
Guiding and clarifying the direction of the project or product involves prioritizing requirements
or scope based on value, dependencies, and technical or operational risks. Those responsible for
providing organizational direction help set the course for the next increment or element to be
developed or delivered. This role includes engaging with stakeholders, customers, and project
teams to collaboratively define the project direction. The primary goal is to maximize the value of
project deliverables and ensure a strong return on project investments. In adaptive and hybrid
environments, direction and insight may come from regular review cycles or feedback loops. In
predictive environments, checkpoints may be established to review progress and provide guidance
on project milestones. Roles such as portfolio managers, project sponsors, and product owners are
examples of those who typically guide and clarify project direction. These roles can ensure that the
project stays aligned with strategic objectives and delivers the intended value, adjusting the course as
necessary based on feedback and performance metrics.
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.