41
Section 3 – Project Management Principles
business case, and intended outcomes. If misalignment persists or the project is unlikely to deliver
the intended value, it may be best to terminate the effort.
A focus on value aims to maximize the return on project investments for the customer, performing
organization, and/or other stakeholders. This effort involves delivering the required functionality and
quality by optimizing workflows with acceptable risk exposure, using minimal necessary resources,
and avoiding unnecessary rework and other types of waste. In adaptive projects without a fixed
scope, the project team collaborates with the customer to determine which features are worth the
investment in both time and money.
The value contribution of project work can be short term or long term and may be intertwined with
operational activities, making it challenging to isolate. When a project is part of a program, evaluating
value at the program level is necessary to properly direct the project. The project value provides key data
for portfolio management so that decisions can be made on which projects to select or continue based
on their value contribution. A reliable evaluation of value should consider the entire context and life cycle
of the project as well as its expected payback period, which may extend well beyond project closeout.
3.4.1 Project Impact
Shifting focus from deliverables to intended outcomes allows project teams to deliver on the project’s
vision or purpose, rather than merely creating a specific deliverable. While a deliverable may support
the intended project outcome, it may not fully achieve the project’s vision or purpose. For example,
customers may want specific software because they believe it will resolve their business need for
higher productivity. The software is the output of the project, but it does not enable productivity by
itself. Adding a new deliverable, such as training in the use of the software, can enable a higher-value
outcome. If the project’s output fails to enable the desired productivity, then the value proposition of
the project is undermined and may even become more harmful than helpful, given the investment in
time and resources. Therefore, project teams, stakeholders, and in particular, team members, should
understand both the deliverable and the intended outcome from the deliverable.
Focus on Value
Continually evaluate and
adjust project alignment
to business objectives and
intended beneﬁts and
value.
Value per unit of investment is the ultimate indicator of
project success.
Value can be realized throughout the project, at the end of
the project, or following project completion./uni00A0/uni00A0
Value, and the beneﬁts that contribute to it, can be deﬁned
in quantitative  and/or qualitative ter ms.
Project teams focus on outcomes that maximize va lue
creation and meet or exceed targe t business objective s.
Project teams evaluate progress and adapt to maximize the
expected value.
Figure 3-3. Focus on Value
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.