53
Section 3 – Project Management Principles
⚫ Schedule. Teams can offer ideas to accelerate, slow down, or stop delivery of key project
activities to maximize the available opportunities. Scheduling decisions consider the
environmental impacts, aiming to minimize carbon footprints and resource usage.
⚫
Finance. Teams help to reduce or eliminate planned expenditures by adding steps,
requirements, or restrictions that increase costs or require additional resources. Benefits
realization occurs by generating and identifying long-term goals, so the project delivers
the intended identified value. Financial planning includes sustainability investments that
promote long-term cost savings and environmental benefits.
⚫
Stakeholders. Teams establish, influence, or even define the level and character of
engagement with stakeholders and the broader organization. Stakeholder engagement
strategies include sustainability education and collaboration to ensure all parties are
aligned with the project’s environmental and social goals.
⚫
Resources. Teams restrict or enable access to physical resources in line with project
requirements; the same applies for people with the skills, knowledge, and experience
needed to deliver the intended outcomes and promote a learning culture. Resource
management prioritizes sustainable materials and practices, ensuring minimal
environmental impact.
⚫
Risk. The team defines the risk thresholds of the project and participates in subsequent risk
management activities. Risk management includes identifying and mitigating environmental
and social threats to help ensure the project’s sustainability objectives are met.
3.8 Build an Empowered Culture
To develop an empowered project culture, the project environment should promote mutual trust
among stakeholders and the project team members. There should be full clarity on individual roles,
responsibilities, team agreements, and guiding processes. These factors enable individuals to work
together and provide synergistic effects from their interactions, which can enable stakeholders to
collaborate more effectively and efficiently to drive project success (see Figure 3-9).
Build an Empowered Culture
Build an empowered culture
that fosters proactive
collaboration and promotes
unity in shared objectives
efﬁciently and effectively
through stakeholders and
teams with diverse skills,
knowledge, and experience./uni00A0
Stakeholders determine the success of projects.Stakeholders determine the success of projects.
Stakeholders and team members on a project are key to
its success, and they should be empowered across
many dimensions.
A collaborative project environment enables stakeholders and
team members to contribute their ideas and recommendations
freely and proactively to meet project outcomes.
Knowing that key stakeholders can highly inﬂuence project
performance and outcomes, motivated and empo wered project
teams actively eng age with them to maximize va lue delivery.
Figure 3-9. Build an Empowered Culture
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.