255
Appendix X5
Evolution of the PMBOK® Guide
Since its inception as the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) in 1987, A Guide to
the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK® Guide) has evolved while recognizing that
fundamental elements of project management endure. Its evolution has captured significant and
substantive changes in the nature of the content. A sampling of some of those key changes is
reflected in Table X5-1.
X5.1 Evidence-Based
In preparation for development work of the eighth edition, PMI actively engaged in a multiphased
research effort, engaging with stakeholders on a global level. PMI also partnered with a third-party
consulting firm to guide research and ensure the study was free from organizational bias.
⚫
Phase 1—Qualitative. This phase consisted of live, chat-based discussions over 2 days with
a mix of project managers, including representatives from seven different countries. This
phase enabled the discovery of themes and identified market needs for further validation.
Participants were required to have familiarity with the seventh edition and at least one prior
edition.
⚫
Phase 2—Quantitative. In Phase 2, it was critical to validate and quantify hypotheses from
Phase 1 on a global level. An online survey was sent to approximately 64,000 professionals
who downloaded the seventh edition, with a response rate of just over 3,400 completions.
Representation included a population across all PMI regions, a mix of early-, mid-, and late-
career stages, with both Project Management Professional (PMP)
® certification holders and
non-PMP practitioners.
⚫ Phase 3—Draft feedback. A team of 25 volunteers used the evidence from Phases 1 and 2
to iterate toward a full draft. PMI broadcast that draft to the community and yielded nearly
9,000 comments and suggestions. The feedback reinforced which elements were strong
and which needed refinement.
⚫
Phase 4—ANSI review. The core development team leveraged the feedback to refine
a final draft, which was submitted to ANSI for formal review. That review resulted in
approximately 3,900 additional practitioner comments, further validating the product.
255
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.