257Appendix X5
X5.2 Changes in the Eighth Edition
The results of market discovery offered clear and definitive findings that informed the content plan of
the eighth edition. Key findings included the following:
⚫ Simplify the principles. A significant number of respondents—88%—supported a
principle-based standard, emphasizing the importance of project management principles.
However, respondents also said principles should be more actionable and less confusing.
Specifically, principles should have connection with performance domains while not
overlapping. For example, a specific topic, such as engaging stakeholders, should not be
formalized as both a principle and a performance domain.
⚫
Reintroduce Process Groups as Focus Areas.  A majority—80% of respondents—
supported the reintroduction and refinement of Process Groups as foundational concepts
within The Standard for Project Management. A full two-thirds of respondents also
indicated these five historically accepted concepts are agnostic of development approach
(e.g., adaptive, predictive, or hybrid). This edition reintroduces Initiating, Planning,
Executing, Monitoring and Controlling, and Closing as Project Management Focus Areas,
which can be performed via formal processes, informal practices, or policies. This
approach was further validated by community feedback received through public exposure
comment periods.
⚫
Reintroduce processes. Again, 79% of respondents recommended that technical ways of
working and processes should be directly integrated into the PMBOK® Guide. While noting
that not all processes apply to every project all of the time, the market asserted process
control theory to be considerably helpful in the practice of project management. Therefore,
this edition offers 40 nonprescriptive processes that are fully embedded within the project
management performance domains. When tailoring a project with a focus on delivering
positive outcomes, these processes may be used as a reference as needed.
X5.3 Sources for the Eighth Edition
To implement the community direction for this eighth edition, the volunteer development team
referenced a broad range of resources, ranging from academic literature to multiple PMI standards
and practice guides.
Of all the sources, the PMBOK
® Guide—Seventh Edition (2021) and Process Groups: A Practice
Guide (2022) served as the primary reference points for historical project management concepts.
Figure X5-1 illustrates the migration and synthesis of content from those primary sources to the
PMBOK
® Guide—Eighth Edition. A full list of the sources used in the creation of this edition can be
found in the bibliography.
X5.4 Refinement of Project Management Principles
Market research and community input emphasized the importance of a principle-based standard
for project management, as presented in the PMBOK
® Guide—Seventh Edition. However, key
improvements were recommended for consideration in this eighth edition, specifically the following:
⚫ Principles should be more actionable. Although respondents overwhelmingly agreed that
principles serve as universal drivers of project success, practitioners also requested more
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.