171
Section 5 – Tools and Techniques
decision points, branching loops, parallel paths, and overall order of processing within a horizontal
value chain. This visualization helps in understanding the operational details of procedures and can
be particularly useful in project management for outlining processes and identifying potential areas
for improvement.
Focus groups. Focus groups are an elicitation technique that brings together prequalified
stakeholders and subject matter experts to learn about their expectations and attitudes about a
proposed product, service, or result. A trained moderator guides the group through an interactive
discussion designed to be more conversational than a one-on-one interview.
Funding limit reconciliation. Funding limit reconciliation is the process of reconciling the
expenditure of funds with any funding limits on the commitment of funds for the project. A
variance between the funding limits and the planned expenditures will sometimes necessitate the
rescheduling of work to level out the rate of expenditures. This leveling is accomplished by placing
imposed date constraints for work into the project schedule.
Genetic algorithms. Genetic algorithms are an optimization technique and iterative process inspired
by natural selection to find solutions to complex problems. Genetic algorithms can be utilized for
project optimization, exploring all possible decision combinations without human bias. For example,
it can be used in project scheduling and resource management as a tool for developing scheduling
strategies, resolving issues related to scheduling conflicts, resource leveling and constraints, and
critical path planning. Genetic algorithms are a specific type of metaheuristic method.
Green human resource management. Green human resource management is a set of people
management policies and practices that focuses on the sustainable use of resources, preserving
the natural environment, and improving environmental performance. For example, green human
resource management can involve incorporating green practices while considering project team
member recruitment and selection, training and development, performance management, and
compensation and rewards, as well as reviewing project team members’ involvement with green
practices when performing individual and team assessments.
Ground rules. Ground rules are expectations regarding acceptable behavior by project team
members. Defined in the team charter, ground rules set the expected behavior for project team
members and other stakeholders with regard to stakeholder engagement.
Hierarchical charts. Hierarchical charts are a traditional organizational chart structure that can be
used to show positions and relationships in a graphical, top-down format. Other hierarchical charts
include the following:
⚫
Work breakdown structure (WBS). A WBS is a hierarchical decomposition of the total
scope of work to be carried out by the project team to accomplish the project objectives
and create the required deliverables. The WBS is designed to show how project deliverables
are broken down into work packages and provides a way of showing high-level areas of
responsibility.
⚫
Organizational breakdown structure (OBS). An OBS is a hierarchical representation of
the project organization that illustrates the relationship between project activities and the
organizational units that will perform those activities. While the WBS shows a breakdown
of project deliverables, an OBS is arranged according to an organization’s existing
departments, units, or teams, with the project activities or work packages listed under each
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.