43
Section 3 – Project Management Principles
3.5 Embed Quality Into Processes and Deliverables
Quality is the degree to which a set of inherent characteristics of a project deliverable or process
helps to meet or exceed the project’s target objectives. Embedding quality includes the ability to
satisfy customers and stakeholders’ stated or implied needs as a matter of course, at or above
target levels of efficiency (see Figure 3-4). The quality of the deliverable and the processes used to
achieve it are measured by conformance to acceptance criteria, the definition of done (DoD), fitness
for use, and overall efficiency. While quality thresholds typically address scope specifications, they
can also apply to schedule and cost, especially for projects where the value proposition may be
highly sensitive to those factors. Adopting a continuous improvement mindset optimizes processes,
boosts efficiency, and enhances maturity growth for the whole organization, leading to better project
outcomes and overall organizational success for present and future endeavors.
Foundational to embedding target quality thresholds is continuous improvement and waste
elimination. These practices enable project teams to refine their processes, optimize resource
utilization, and deliver outcomes that meet or exceed target objectives. Continuous improvement
allows teams to proactively identify and address areas for enhancement in both deliverables and
workflows, while waste elimination streamlines processes, conserving resources and improving
performance. Quality spans several dimensions that apply to both deliverables and processes,
including but not limited to the following:
⚫
Performance. Do the deliverables or processes function as intended by the project team
and other stakeholders?
⚫ Conformity. Are the deliverables and processes aligned with specifications and fit for use?
⚫ Reliability. Do the deliverables and processes maintain the consistency necessary to meet
or exceed desired outcomes?
Embed Quality Into Processes and Deliver ables
Embed quality into
processes and deliverables
to maintain a consistent
focus on achieving target
quality thresholds. This
emphasis on quality helps
to ensure outcomes that
meet project objectives
and align with the needs,
requirements, and
acceptance criteria set by
relevant stakeholder s./uni00A0
Project quality entails satisfying rele vant stakeholders’
expectations and fulﬁlling project and product requirements.
Quality focuses on meeting acceptance criteria for deliv erables.
Project quality entails ensuring project processes are
appropriate and as effective as possible.
Figure 3-4. Embed Quality Into Processes and Deliverables
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.