15
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
⚫ How might the use of external resources impact the project’s overall risk profile?
⚫ How might using internal or external resources benefit the overall value proposition?
The management and oversight of outsourcing efforts can be performed by the project management
team and/or a dedicated procurement department within an organization. Procurement
management is the discipline of selecting, contracting, and supervising vendors to perform
outsourced work. Procurement management is a complementary discipline to project management
and is explored in Appendix X4.
2.1.6 Processes
The Governance performance domain encompasses the processes required to make decisions
that protect and enhance the value proposition of a project in an integrated and holistic manner,
including the authority to cancel a project when necessary.
This performance domain also encompasses the processes and activities to identify, define, combine,
unify, and coordinate the various processes and project management activities within the Project
Management Focus Areas.
In the project management context, governance includes characteristics of unification, consolidation,
communication, and interrelationship. These actions should be applied from the start of the project
through completion and integration as appropriate. The Governance performance domain involves
making choices about the following:
⚫
Establishing a governance framework that aligns with organizational strategic and
operational goals as well as ethical principles;
⚫ Defining roles and responsibilities for decision-making, oversight, and control;
⚫ Ensuring effective communication and coordination among stakeholders;
⚫ Monito ring and managing internal and external dependencies, risks, issues, and escalations;
⚫ Co ntinuously assessing and optimizing the governance framework to improve project outcomes;
⚫ Balancing competing demands;
⚫ Examining any alternative approaches;
⚫ Tailoring the processes to meet the project objectives;
⚫ Managing the interdependencies among the performance domains by encouraging
seamless collaboration and transition among various process performances;
⚫ Incorporating feedback mechanisms to adapt governance practices to evolving project
needs; and
⚫ Ensuring compliance with regulatory and legal requirements to maintain organizational
accountability.
In summary, the Governance performance domain focuses on creating a structured approach
to decision-making and oversight, helping to ensure that project activities are aligned with
organizational objectives and that the value proposition of the project is protected and enhanced
throughout its life cycle.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.