65
Section 4 – Project Life Cycles
⚫ New product development. Adaptive approaches are also appropriate for projects
where the final features of the product are refined based on market needs such as the
development of a new mobile app or web service.
⚫ Digital projects. Adaptive approaches are popular with software projects due to their
dynamic nature. While not all software development projects require an adaptive approach,
those with evolving scope, high uncertainty, and the need for early or incremental delivery
are strong candidates for this approach.
4.2.3 Hybrid Approaches
A hybrid development approach is a combination of adaptive and predictive approaches. This
development approach incorporates some elements from a predictive approach and some from an
adaptive approach. This development approach might be appropriate when there is uncertainty or
risk around the requirements such as the design of a custom home. Once the design is complete,
it makes sense to iterate no more than once for the build. Hybrid approaches are also useful when
deliverables can be modularized or when there are deliverables that can be developed by different
project teams.
In practice, most projects can strongly benefit from a hybrid approach that combines adaptive and
predictive methodologies. Focusing exclusively on either an adaptive or predictive approach does
not fully address the varied challenges and complexities that modern projects present. A hybrid
approach provides flexibility to adapt to changing conditions while retaining control over predictable
aspects.
Another example is a project with two main deliverables, where one deliverable is developed using
an adaptive approach and the other using a predictive approach (e.g., software that will be developed
with an adaptive approach but needs to be installed in a new data center that will be built with a
predictive approach).
With a hybrid approach, the various phases of the project can be approached differently. Projects
can primarily be carried out using one approach while subsidiary streams can use a different way of
working—in certain cases, adaptive, and in other cases, predictive.
Hybrid project management methods follow four common patterns, as illustrated in Figures 4-8
through 4-11.
⚫
The early processes use an adaptive development life cycle, which is then followed by a
predictive rollout phase.
Adaptive Adaptive Adaptive Predictive Predictive Predictive
Figure 4-8. Adaptive Development Followed by a Predictive Rollout
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.