269
kanban board. A visualization tool that shows work in progress to help identify bottlenecks and
overcommitments, thereby allowing the team to optimize the workflow. See also task board.
knowledge. A mixture of experience, values and beliefs, contextual information, intuition, and insight
that people use to make sense of new experiences and information.
lessons learned. The knowledge gained during a project that shows how project events were
addressed or should be addressed in the future for the purpose of improving future performance.
life cycle. See project life cycle.
log. A document used to record and describe or denote selected items identified during execution of
a process or activity. Usually used with a modifier, such as issue, change, or assumption.
management reserve. Time or money that management sets aside in addition to the schedule or
cost baseline and releases for unforeseen work that is within the scope of the portfolio, program, or
project. See also contingency reserve.
mandatory dependency. A relationship that is contractually required or inherent in the nature of
the work.
method. A means for achieving an outcome, output, result, or project deliverable.
methodology. A system of practices, techniques, procedures, and rules used by those who work in a
discipline.
metric. A description of a project or product attribute and how to measure it.
milestone. A significant point or event in a portfolio, program, or project.
milestone schedule. A type of schedule that presents milestones with planned dates.
minimum viable product (MVP). A concept used to define the scope of the first release of a solution
to customers by identifying the fewest number of features or requirements that would deliver value.
modeling. Creating simplified representations of systems, solutions, or deliverables such as
prototypes, diagrams, or storyboards.
monitoring. Collecting project performance data, producing performance measures, and reporting
and disseminating performance information.
Monitoring and Controlling Focus Area. Those processes required to track, review, and regulate
the progress and performance of the project; identify any areas in which changes to the plan are
required; and initiate the corresponding changes.
Monte Carlo analysis/simulation. A method of identifying the potential impacts of risk and
uncertainty using multiple iterations of a computer model to develop a probability distribution of a
range of outcomes that could result from a decision or course of action.
Net Promoter Score℠.
1 An index that measures the willingness of customers to recommend an
organization’s products or services to others.
1 Net Promoter®, NPS®, NPS Prism®, and the NPS-related emoticons are registered trademarks of Bain
& Company, Inc., NICE Systems, Inc., and Fred Reichheld. Net Promoter ScoreSM and Net Promoter
SystemSM are service marks of Bain & Company, Inc., NICE Systems, Inc., and Fred Reichheld.
Glossary
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.