150
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
⚫ Individual brainstorming encourages creative thinking and includes techniques such as:
◾ Free writing. A time-based writing session when people generate ideas and write until
an alarm sounds, ignoring grammar and spelling;
◾ Word association. Creating a list of words and relating them to a topic, which
stimulates the development of numerous creative and unconventional ideas; and
◾ Spiderwebs. Visual note-taking that diagrams the process of thought, where one idea
can stimulate other related ideas.
⚫ Mind mapping. See mind mapping.
⚫ Reverse brainstorming is a brainstorming technique used by teams to create ideas about
how to make a problem worse instead of solving it, which may help to identify the root
cause of a problem.
⚫
Round-robin is a brainstorming technique where everyone within the team takes a turn to
generate and develop ideas.
⚫ Starbursting is a brainstorming technique with a main goal of creating a list of questions
related to an idea or an issue from different angles. The star has six points, each
representing a different question: who, what, when, where, why, and how.
⚫
SWOT (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, threats) analysis. See SWOT analysis.
⚫ Five whys analysis is an iterative brainstorming technique that repeatedly asks “why” in
order to get beyond symptoms and get to the root cause of the problem.
Branch and bound. The branch and bound technique is a minimal path to the optimal solution
for a given problem. Branch and bound is an optimization problem-solving method that involves
breaking down a problem into smaller subproblems and using bounding functions to eliminate any
subproblems that do not contain the optimal solution. This technique could be used for project
scheduling by systematically exploring and pruning potential schedules to find an optimal sequence
of tasks that minimizes project completion time while satisfying all constraints.
Burndown chart. A burndown chart is a graphical representation of the work remaining versus the
time left in a timebox. See also iteration burndown chart.
Burnup chart. A burnup chart is a graphical representation of the work completed toward a milestone.
Burnup charts are used mostly within adaptive development approaches to show project progress over
time. The chart tracks the amount of work to be completed as a straight line across the top of the graph.
The work completed starts at zero and increases as more work is completed. See also visual controls.
Cause-and-effect diagram. A cause-and effect diagram is a visual representation that helps trace
an effect back to its root cause. A cause-and-effect diagram may also be known as a fishbone or
Ishikawa diagram. This type of diagram breaks down the causes of the problem statement identified
into discrete branches, helping to identify the main or root cause of the problem.
Centralized management and leadership. While leadership activities should be practiced by
all project team members, management activities may be centralized or distributed. Centralized
management and leadership is a management structure that consists of top-down leadership
and instructions for decision implementation for other levels of management. As opposed to
implementing distributed management and leadership, a centralized management and leadership
structure means that the decision-making and authority are centralized within top management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.