33
Section 2 – Project Management Performance Domains
Identify outstanding risks that should be accepted or transitioned to operations. The Close Project or
Phase process also includes establishing procedures to investigate and document reasons that the
project may have been terminated before completion. Engaging relevant stakeholders is crucial to
ensure a comprehensive closure process.
2.1.6.9.2 Adaptive Approaches
In adaptative approaches, the Close Project or Phase process centers on wrapping up all activities related
to the release or iteration, ensuring the prioritized items are completed and the value is delivered.
Key activities for closing an adaptive project or iteration may include the following:
⚫
Completion of release or iteration. The following activities should be performed when
completing a release or iteration in an adaptive project:
◾ Confirm that prioritize d backlog items are finished and that all acceptance criteria are met.
◾ Ensure that all deliverables have been reviewed and accepted by stakeholders.
◾ Conduct a final review to verify that all project tasks a re completed and that no
outstanding issues remain.
⚫ Knowledge transfer and retrospectives. The following knowledge transfer and
retrospectives activities should be performed:
◾ Facilitate knowledge-sharing sessions to transfer insi ghts and information among the
team.
◾ Hold retrospectives to reflect on the iteration and/or  release, identifying lessons
learned and opportunities for improvement in future work.
◾ Discuss outstanding risks that should be accepted or  transitioned to subsequent
iterations and/or releases, clients, and operations.
2.1.7 Tailoring Considerations
Project governance should be tailored to the context in which the project operates. Governance
that brings value relies on deep knowledge of the industry and regulatory considerations, the
organization, and the context for a particular project. Additionally, tailoring in this domain may occur
based on predictive, adaptive, or hybrid approaches. In fact, agile projects may avoid traditional
governance entirely in favor of self-governance that is embedded in project approaches. Customizing
governance is typically part of the Initiate Project or Phase process but may occur iteratively
throughout the project. Depending on the project approach, outcomes of tailoring decisions may be
recorded in the project management plan, another document, or a system of record. In organizations
implementing predictive or hybrid approaches, a senior project manager—or in large organizations,
a portfolio manager, program manager, or project management office—will likely handle project
governance. Considerations for tailoring include but are not limited to the following:
⚫
Organizational governance. Governance should be understood from the perspective of
other functions and projects within the larger organization. Governance requires the following:
◾ Identifying the control boards, committees, and othe r stakeholders that are part of the
project; and
◾ Defining the project status reporting requirements.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.