121
Section 4 – Inputs and Outputs
support it throughout its life cycle. This output refers to the transition of the final product, service, or
result that the project was authorized to produce (or in the case of phase closure, the intermediate
product, service, or result of that phase) from one team to another.
Final report. A final report is a summary of project performance, which can include information such as:
⚫
Summary-level description of the project or phase;
⚫ Scope objectives, the criteria used to evaluate the scope, and evidence that the completion
criteria were met;
⚫ Quality objectives, the criteria used to evaluate the project and product quality, the
verification and actual milestone delivery dates, and reasons for variances;
⚫ Cost objectives, including the acceptable cost range, actual costs, and reasons for any
variances;
⚫ Summary of the validation information for the final product, service, or result;
⚫ Schedule objectives, including whether the results achieved the benefits that the project
was undertaken to address (If the benefits are not met at the close of the project, indicate
the degree to which they were achieved and an estimate for future benefits realization.);
⚫ Summary of how the final product, service, or result achieved the business needs identified
in the business plan (If the business needs are not met at the close of the project, indicate
the degree to which they were achieved and an estimate for when the business needs will
be met in the future.); and
⚫
Summary of any risks or issues encountered on the project and how they were addressed.
Financial management plan. A financial management plan is a component of a program or project
management plan that describes how costs will be planned, structured, and controlled. The financial
management processes, and their associated tools and techniques, are documented in the financial
management plan. For example, the financial management plan can establish the following:
⚫
Units of measure. Each unit used in measurements (e.g., staff hours, staff days, or weeks
for time measures; meters, liters, tons, kilometers, or cubic yards for quantity measures; or
lump sum in currency form) is defined for each of the resources.
⚫
Level of precision. This is the degree to which cost estimates will be rounded up or down
(e.g., US$995.59 to US$1,000) based on the scope of the activities and magnitude of
the project.
⚫
Level of accuracy. The acceptable range (e.g., ±10%) used in determining realistic cost
estimates is specified and may include an amount for contingencies.
⚫
Organizational procedures links. The work breakdown structure (WBS) (see Section 5)
provides the framework for the financial management plan, allowing for consistency with
the estimates, budgets, and control of costs. The WBS component used for project cost
accounting is called the control account. Each control account is assigned a unique code or
account number(s) that links directly to the performing organization’s accounting system.
⚫
Control thresholds. Variance thresholds for monitoring cost performance may be
specified to indicate an agreed-upon amount of variation to be allowed before some action
should be taken. Thresholds are typically expressed as percentage deviations from the
baseline plan.
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.