116
A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge
Both the business case and the benefits management plan are developed prior to the project
being initiated. Additionally, both documents are referenced after the project has been completed.
Therefore, they are considered business documents rather than project documents or components
of the project management plan. As appropriate, these business documents may be inputs to some
of the processes involved in managing the project, such as developing the project charter.
Business case. A business case is a documented economic feasibility study used to establish validity
of the benefits to be delivered by a portfolio component, program, or project. The business case
helps to define a selected component that is lacking sufficient explanation and that is used as a basis
for the authorization of further project management activities.
The business case lists the objectives and reasons for project initiation. The business case helps to
measure project success at the end of the project against the project objectives. The business case is
a project business document that is used throughout the project life cycle. The business case may be
used before project initiation and may result in a go/no-go decision for the project.
Both the business case and the benefits management plan are developed prior to the project
being initiated. Additionally, both documents are referenced after the project has been completed.
Therefore, they are considered business documents rather than project documents or components
of the project management plan. As appropriate, these business documents may be inputs to some
of the processes involved in managing the project, such as developing the project charter.
Business documents. Business documents include the business case and the benefits management plan;
they contain information about the project’s objectives and how the project will contribute to the business
goals. Although both documents are developed prior to the project, they are reviewed periodically.
In some organizations, the business case and benefits management plan are maintained at the
program level. The project sponsor is generally accountable for the development and maintenance
of the project’s business case document. The project manager is responsible for providing
recommendations and oversight to keep success measures for the project’s business case, project
management plan, project charter, and benefits management plan in alignment with one another
and with the goals and objectives of the organization.
Change log. A change log is a comprehensive list of changes submitted during the project, which
includes the current status of the submitted changes. The disposition of all change requests is
recorded in the change log as a project document update.
Change management plan. A change management plan is a component of the project management
plan that establishes the change control board (CCB), also known as a steering committee;
documents the extent of its authority; and describes how the change control system will be
implemented.
The change management plan provides the direction for managing the change control process and
documents the roles and responsibilities of the CCB.
Change requests. A change request is a formal proposal to modify a document, deliverable, or
baseline. Change requests may be initiated internally or externally to the project.
When issues are found while project work is being performed, change requests are submitted to
modify project policies or procedures, project or product scope, project cost or budget, project
schedule, or the quality of the project or product results. Change requests may include corrective
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.