36
This section defines the six principles of project management:
⚫ Adopt a Holistic View (see Section 3.3);
⚫ Focus on Value (see Section 3.4);
⚫ Embed Quality Into Processes and Deliverables (see Section 3.5);
⚫ Be an Accountable Leader (see Section 3.6);
⚫ Integrate Sustainability Within All Project Areas (see Section 3.7); and
⚫ Build an Empowered Culture (see Section 3.8).
Collectively, these principles describe the mindset of project management, which in turn guides the
mechanics of project management. This interplay between mindset and mechanics is discussed in
Section 3.1.
3.1 The Project Management Mindset
Project management is much more than a collection of performance domains, processes, and
methods; it represents a mindset, sometimes referred to as a “growth mindset,” that is fundamental
for executing strategy, fostering adaptability, driving change, and generating value. A mindset is a set
of beliefs, ways of thinking, and habits that make sense of the behaviors and views of others as well
as a way to interpret and deal with various situations. The project management mindset is described
by three dimensions and six principles that guide the practice of project management mechanics.
The project management mindset is composed of three dimensions: proactive, ownership, and
value-driven. This integrated mindset is essential in today’s complex and rapidly changing business
environment that should balance diverse customer needs and consider the increasing need for—and
importance of—sustainability. Figure 3-1 provides an overview of the relationships among these
dimensions and the correlation with the project management principles described in this section.
OwnershipProactive
Value-Driven
Embed Quality Into Processes
and Deliverables
Adopt a Holistic View Be an Accountable Leader
Build an Empowered Culture
Mindset
Focus on Value Integrate Sustainability Within
All Project Areas
Figure 3-1. The Project Management Mindset
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.