70
While these Focus Areas are presented sequentially, in practice they often overlap and interact
dynamically throughout the project life cycle.
The Project Management Focus Areas should not be confused with project phases, although some
naming conventions may be the same or a project phase may largely consist of activities that are part
of a Focus Area.
Additionally, these Focus Areas intersect with project management performance domains in specific
ways. Detailed descriptions of the project management performance domains and their relationships to
the Focus Areas are provided in A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK
® Guide) [2].
4.5.1 Initiating Focus Area
The Initiating Focus Area consists of those processes, practices, or actions performed to define a new
project or new phase of an existing project. This area often includes formal authorization to start the
project or phase. The purpose of the Initiating Focus Area is to align the stakeholders’ expectations
and the project’s purpose, inform stakeholders of the scope and objectives, align key stakeholders,
and discuss how their participation in the project and its associated phases can help to ensure their
expectations are met.
Among the various initiating actions, the initial scope is defined and initial financial resources are
committed. Stakeholders who will interact and influence the overall outcome of the project are
identified and project management roles are assigned. This information is often captured in artifacts
such as a project charter or stakeholder register.
The key benefits of this Focus Area are that projects are only authorized when aligned with the
organization’s strategic objectives and when the business case, benefits, and stakeholders are
considered from the start of the project. In some organizations, a project manager is involved in
developing the business case and defining the benefits. In other organizations, a broader project
management team helps write a formal project charter, while others have the preliminary project work
done by the project sponsor, PMO, portfolio steering committee, or another stakeholder group.
Business documents are those documents that generally originate outside of the project but are used
as inputs to the project. Examples of business documents include the business case and benefits
management plan. Figure 4-12 shows one way a sponsor and related business documents may relate
to initiating actions.
In the business documents, the sponsor should provide the minimum information necessary for a
project manager to start project activities. Involving the sponsors, customers, and other stakeholders
during project initiation creates a shared understanding of success criteria. This involvement also
increases alignment on project deliverables as well as stakeholder satisfaction throughout the project.
4.5.2 Planning Focus Area
The Planning Focus Area consists of those processes, practices, or actions that establish the intended
scope of the effort, define and refine the objectives, and develop the course of action required to
attain those objectives. Such activities may involve developing several artifacts such as a product
backlog or a project management plan.
The nature of a project may require the use of repeated feedback loops for additional analysis. As
more project information or characteristics are gathered and understood, some additional planning
The Standard for Project Management
Licensed To: Josh Collins PMI MemberID: 12596044
This copy is a PMI Member benefit, not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.